                                                                 1

              FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

                             586th FPRAC

               SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding

                      Thursday, August 15, 2013

                               Room 5526
                    Office of Personnel Management
                        Washington, D.C. 20415

ATTENDANCE:

Members/Alternates:

     Management Members:
     Mark Allen, OPM
     Steven Rumble, DoD
     Bob Kerr, Air Force (via telephone)
     Pamela Sokol, Army

     Labor Members:
     Dennis Phelps, MTD
     Charles Bernhardt, AFGE
     Robert Shore, NAGE

Staff Specialists and Visitors:
     Jeanne Jacobson, Designated Federal Officer, OPM
     Madeline Gonzalez, OPM
     Jennifer Dorsey, OPM
     Darlene Freeman, NAVY
     Jim Brady, DoD
     Bill Becht, DoD
     Dawna Powell, DoD
     Deborah Blake, DOI
     Crystal Gailes, DOI
     Kermit Howard, DOI
     Josh Hildreth, DOI
     CAPT William Hanrahan, DOI NPS


Recording Secretaries:    Mike Eicher and Terri Wallace

   [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]
                                                               2

                          C O N T E N T S

                                                        Page
I.     Opening/Announcements
       • Introductions.....................................4
       • Announcements.....................................6
         - Articles on the 2013 Locality Pay Equity Act
           (H.R. 2450) introduced by Rep. Matt Cartwright
           (D-PA), 586-OC-1

II.    Review of the Minutes of the 585th Meeting..........6

III.   Old Business........................................7
       a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2
          - Total Employment in the Eastern Tennessee Wage
            Area by County, 566-OPM-1
          - List of FWS Wage Areas with Fewer Than 500
            Employees, 566-OPM-2
          - Review of Criteria for Defining Appropriated
            Fund Wage Areas, 545-OC-1 [REPRINT]
       b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns
          - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on
            Survey Issues Work Group, 560-OC-1
       c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal
          Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1
       d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
       e. Letter from the American Federation of Government
          Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
          review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
          from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
          the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1
       f. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1
       g. Proposal for FPRAC review of the Federal Wage
          System Appropriated Fund and Nonappropriated
          Fund Operating Manuals, 575-AFGE-1
       h. Suggestion for a research paper on the history
          of the Federal Government's prevailing rate
          system
       i. Review of the Augusta and Portland, ME Federal
          Wage System Wage Areas, 578-MGT-1
          - Alternate Analysis of the Portland, ME Federal
            Wage System Wage Area, 580-MGT-1
       j. Project to update wage area maps
       k. Department of the Interior's Special Vessel
          Schedules, 585-OPM-1
                                                               3



                    C O N T E N T S (continued)

                                                       Page

IV.   New Business.........................................7
      a. Presentation: Comments on the DOI/NPS Pay Plan
         Proposal for the Isle Royale National Park's
         RANGER III Vessel, 586-OC-2
         - Guest Speaker, William Hanrahan,
           Captain of the RANGER III
      b. 2013 Update to Review of Lee County, Virginia,
         586-MGT-1
      c. 2013 Update to Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka,
         IN-MI Metropolitan Statistical Area, 586-MGT-2
                                                                       4


                            P R O C E E D I N G

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Good morning, everyone.   Welcome

to this 586th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory

Committee.    My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chair of the Committee,

and as we always do, let's please go around and introduce

ourselves for the recorder.

             Let's start with you today Mark.

             MR. ALLEN:    Mark Allen with OPM.

             MR. RUMBLE:   Steve Rumble with DoD.

             MS. SOKOL:    Pamela Sokol, Army.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I believe we have a Management

person on the phone.

             MR. KERR:    Yeah.   You have Air Force, Bob Kerr.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    We are hoping you can join us in

person next time.    We'd like that a lot.

             MR. PHELPS:   Dennis Phelps, the Metal Trades

Department.

             MR. BERNHARDT:   Charlie Bernhardt, American Federation

of Government Employees.

             MR. SHORE:    Robert Shore, National Association of

Government Employees.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    And if everyone else around the
                                                                      5


room can introduce themselves too?    Madeline?

           MS. GONZALEZ:    Madeline Gonzalez, OPM.

           MS. JACOBSON:    Jeanne Jacobson, OPM, Designated

Federal Officer.

           MS. WALLACE:    Terri Wallace, OPM.

           MS. FREEMAN:    Darlene Freeman, Department of Navy.

           MS. POWELL:    Donna Powell, DoD.

           MR. BRADY:    Jim Brady, DoD.

           MR. BECHT:    Bill Becht, DoD.

           MS. DORSEY:    Jennifer Dorsey, OPM.

           MR. EICHER:    Mike Eicher, OPM.

           MR. HOWARD:    Kermit Howard, Department of Interior.

           MR. HILDRETH:    Josh Hildreth, Department of Interior.

           MS. GAILES:    Crystal Gailes, Department of Interior.

           MS. BLAKE:    Deborah Blake, Department of Interior.

           CAPT HANRAHAN:   Captain William Hanrahan, Department

of Interior, National Park Service.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Thank you all, and Captain

Hanrahan is our guest speaker today.       We will get to him very

shortly.

           I want to say welcome back to Terri.      We are glad to

have you back.
                                                                    6


          MS. WALLACE:     Thank you.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    A couple of quick announcements.

We circulated articles from the Washington Post and a couple

other publications on the 2013 Locality Pay Equity Act, H.R.

2450, introduced by Representative Matt Cartwright of

Pennsylvania.   I thought that would be of interest to people.

          Are there any other announcements?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    That's all that I have.

          If not, we can go on to review the transcript of our

last meeting.   Are there any changes or corrections that people

have beyond those we have already heard about from you?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    If not, is there any objection to

adopting that transcript?

          MR. ALLEN:     No objection.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Hearing no objection, the

transcript is adopted.

          We have a lot of Old Business items sitting in our

Inbox that we are going to work our way through, not today

unfortunately, but soon.    Two of them have New Business items

today that pertain to them, but before we get to that, unless
                                                                      7


there's some urgent item of Old Business people want to discuss

right now, I suggest we move on to New Business.      Is that

agreeable?

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   So our first item is the

Department of Interior/National Park Service Pay Plan Proposal

for the Isle Royale National Park’s RANGER III Vessel, and the

guest speaker is Captain Hanrahan of that vessel who is going to

address his concerns about the proposal and his alternative to

it.

             Before I introduce Captain Hanrahan, I thought I would

ask Mark to very briefly summarize the Department of Interior

proposal, which was distributed at the last meeting but not

discussed.    So perhaps focusing on what the current pay practice

is, what the proposal is, and what the reasoning is in the

National Park Service as to why the maritime wage schedule is

not applicable.

             MR. ALLEN:   First of all, I'd like to thank Captain

Hanrahan for coming to the meeting today.      It's a long way to

travel on fairly short notice, but this is an issue I think you

do need to get taken care of because we've heard that there are

recruitment and retention problems that are possibly affecting
                                                                     8


the safety in the long term of the operation of the vessel.

             In 585-OPM-1, we've laid out information that we have

received from the Department of the Interior regarding the

background of how pay has been determined up to this point for

the crew of the RANGER III vessel, and we have a proposal here

from the Department of the Interior to update the set-aside pay

schedule.    By set-aside, I mean that the employees of the vessel

are not paid from a regular wage schedule.    They are not under

the government-wide Federal Wage System classification

standards.

             There is an accommodation that was made back in 1972

when the Federal Wage System was created under the law that if

things couldn't fit in readily to the way that the regular

system operated that they would be allowed to continue, so as

not to disadvantage employees by cutting their pay by placing

them under the regular classification standards or job grading

standards and regular wage schedules.

             OPM has documented the set-aside schedule in the back

of the Operating Manual since then.    Before we make any changes

to what's documented in the Operating Manual, FPRAC should

provide OPM with a recommendation and acknowledgement that the

Committee has fully reviewed the agency pay practice.
                                                                    9


          Under the Department of Interior proposal, the pay

practice has been a set-aside pay practice primarily because of

the classification, so we would not be rolling them into the

regular Federal Wage system at this point.

          On page 2, acknowledgement is made that the Department

of Interior found inadequate industry practice exists to warrant

setting pay for the crew of the RANGER III under 5 USC 5348(a),

which is the maritime pay provision in the law.

          Now, there's further explanation of that statement on

page 3 of the attachment from the Department of the Interior.

The second and third paragraphs explain in I think pretty good

detail why it's not suitable in the view of the Department of

the Interior to establish the pay of the crew under the maritime

pay provision.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   There is not actually a "3" on the

page, the third page.

          MR. ALLEN:    Basically, the RANGER III vessel is not

comparable to saltwater vessels using maritime wage schedules.

Generally speaking maritime wage schedules apply to Military

Sealift Command where the crews of the vessels go out for days

upon end transporting military equipment from port to port on

the high seas.
                                                                   10


          In terms of updating the current pay practice, what

the Department of the Interior proposes to do is move away from

having a single-step pay structure to having a five-step pay

structure using the same step-rate percentages and waiting

periods as the FWS system, and they are also proposing to move

away from using the Northwestern Michigan Wage Schedule and

using the Detroit Michigan Wage Schedule instead, and the reason

for that is to ensure parity with another vessel that the

Department of the Interior operates in the region.

          That's basically the gist of it.

          On page 3 of the OPM document, there are conversion

steps, basically pay administration, of what would happen if OPM

updates the Operating Manual.   It would move from their current

rate of pay to a different step, something that's not been

afforded to them in the past.   So there is growth potential with

the change, and the Detroit Wage Schedule is also a higher wage

schedule than the Northwestern Michigan wage schedule and those

things combined should help to alleviate some of the problems of

recruitment and retention for members of the crew.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I have some questions about the

proposal, but I'm going to hold them, but if others have burning

questions they want to ask right now, they can do that.
                                                                       11


             MR. BERNHARDT:   The only question I have,

Mr. Chairman, is just to make sure that this would only require

an Operating Manual change and not a CFR change.

             MR. ALLEN:   That's correct.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   All right.   So we will get into a

full discussion after we hear from Captain Hanrahan, who it is

my great privilege to introduce.     I thank you so much for

traveling this long distance to bring this matter to our

attention.    I know you have been wrestling with it for many

years.

             Captain Hanrahan is the Captain of the RANGER III

vessel at the Michigan Isle Royale National Park transporting

passengers and freight, and among other things, he has 36 years

of maritime experience, the last 19 of those years as captain of

the RANGER, which he has been since 1994.

             He is a graduate of the Great Lakes Maritime Academy

in Traverse City, Michigan.

             There's much more we could say about him.    He has at

my request furnished a bio which with his permission I will

share with the members of the Committee, not taking too much

more time right now.

             With that, Captain Hanrahan, the floor is yours.
                                                                   12


           CAPT HANRAHAN:    Thank you, Chairman Friedman.    I

appreciate the time you all have given me to speak and to listen

to what I have to say.

           I did want to clarify a few things on the DOI proposal

before I read my statement.    On Attachment E on the DOI

proposal, under "Captain's Statement" - I want to clarify that

the first two paragraphs are not my statement.

           From the italicized point down, that is my statement.

It appears in these paragraphs as if I support this proposal by

DOI, and I clearly do not.

           One other thing I want to mention, the RANGER III, for

those of you who are not familiar with the shipping industry or

the maritime industry, all of the other DOI vessels that are

cited in the DOI proposal are non-commerce public vessels, and

for those that are not familiar with the maritime world, a

public vessel is not required to have a Coast Guard license.

They are not inspected by the U.S. Coast Guard.    They are

strictly public service missions.

           U.S. Navy ships, Coast Guard vessels, they do not --

those captains do not have a license issued by the U.S. Coast

Guard.   The agency takes care of all of their training and

qualification processes.
                                                                     13


          As I said, the research vessels that DOI has cited in

their proposal under USGS, U.S. Fish and Wildlife, none of these

vessels are in commerce contrary to the RANGER III.     The RANGER

III is a DOI vessel, and it is a public vessel; however, it also

transports oil.   It transports hazardous materials.    It

transports passengers.   It operates a crane.   It transports

great bulk propane, explosive propane, all of this in commerce,

and because it is in commerce, it extracts it from that public

protection where you don't have to have -- you don't have the

regulatory regime to deal with on these other DOI vessels.      On

this particular vessel, you do.

          All of our crewmembers are licensed or documented by

the U.S. Coast Guard.    They all have to have transportation

worker identification credentials.   They have to comply with

U.S. Coast Guard physicians, which if you are familiar with

that, there's a 184-page Navigation and Vessel Inspection

Circular that the doctor has to read to make sure that these

people are qualified, and that goes on every 5 years.    These

people have to renew their documents every 5 years.

          They also have to have an OSHA Hazmat Level II

Training Certificate because we carry the oil and the propane.

If you are not familiar with the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, it
                                                                   14


is all of the Exxon Valdez fallout regulations, and in this

particular case, the RANGER III must comply with that law and

all of the fall-out regulations which are 33 CFR 154 and 155,

and that requires specifically that the government meet

contractual issues with regards to cleanup of an oil spill

because we carry oil in commerce.   You have to have a marine

salvage outfit under contract.   You also have to have marine

firefighting outfit under contract.

          And in this particular case, the government meets

those contractual issues through a basic order and agreements

that are negotiated with the U.S. Coast Guard.   Essentially, any

spill or explosion, with the RANGER III, that would be -- those

contractors would be called out by the Captain of the Port at

the Marine Safety Office in Duluth, Minnesota, and using

qualified individuals and incident commanders at Isle Royale,

they would deal with that spill.

          Obviously, Congress does not make for -- it does not

fund these open-ended issues.    If you're not familiar with the

Oil Pollution Act of 1990, it has unlimited liability with

regards to an oil spill, and subsequently, the Department of

Interior cannot meet that.   Obviously, Congress didn't

appropriate funds for that kind of thing.
                                                                    15


             They do, however, back the National Pollutions Fund

Center.     There's a tax that is on every barrel of oil

transported.    Those funds are used to back the Coast Guard to

then call out these contractors.    That's how that is funded.     So

we fall under these basic order agreements, and in fact, I

monitor those contracts with the Coast Guard and work with the

Coast Guard and also the Superintendent of Navy Salvage to meet

the salvage, marine, and firefighting requirements under these

OPA-90 regulations.

             So I want to make it clear to everybody that the

RANGER III is a unique vessel, and I will tell you -- and I know

this from Coast Guard Headquarters, and you will find it on

Coast Guard Headquarters webpage -- that the RANGER III is the

only tank ship that the U.S. Government operates that transports

oil in commerce.

             The only other vessel that you'll find on that webpage

is the gasoline barge Greenstone II, which is also operated by

Isle Royale National Park.    That transports gasoline to Isle

Royale National Park.    That is the second vessel response plan

that you will find on the Coast Guard webpage and the only two

vessels owned by the Federal Government that transports oil in

commerce.
                                                                     16


          You are probably thinking to yourself, well, Military

Sealift Command, et cetera, have oil tankers.     They do, but they

are specifically in public service.   They do not meet the

requirements of OPA-90.

          With that, I'll start on my comments.

          My name is William Hanrahan.   I am here today

representing myself and advocating for the crewmembers of the

package freighter, USNPS RANGER III at Isle Royale National

Park.

          The RANGER is a "public" vessel operated "in commerce"

by the Department of Interior, National Park Service to "service

the logistical needs of Isle Royale National Park."     The vessel

was designed by R.A. Stearns Inc. of Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin, to

NPS specifications in 1957.   It was built by Christy

Shipbuilding Inc., also of Sturgeon Bay, and entered into

service in September 1958.

          At a cost of $1,160,000 in 1958, it has been in

continuous service for 55 years.   It was repowered with EPA Tier

II-rated engines -- those are emission standards -- and

reconditioned in 1998 at a cost of $2.3 million.    The ship has a

replacement value of 25- to $30 million, and that was a recent

estimate that I did get from J.M. Martinac Shipbuilding, Tacoma,
                                                                     17


and that was at the request of the Superintendent of the Park.

            The ship measures 165 foot, 650 gross rated tons.

That's lightship.   That's when it came out of the dock.    It

displaces that much water, 650 tons.   Fully loaded, it displaces

835 tons.   Maximum cargo is 125 tons, including 25 tons of bulk

No. 2 oil cargo.

             The RANGER is unique in Federal service.    First, it

is the only tank ship operated in commerce by the Federal

Government, and unlike all the other Federal vessels cited in

the DOI proposal you received on June 10th, the RANGER is

inspected and certificated by the U.S. Coast Guard as a

subchapter H passenger vessel.   It is also inspected under

subchapters D, tank vessels, and I, miscellaneous cargo vessels.

It is also classed and regularly inspected by the American

Bureau of Shipping.    Contrary to some media, it is not a

"ferry" vessel, as it also transports bulk cargo oil under OPA-

90, hazardous materials under the USDOT Hazardous Materials

Regulations that includes cargo flammables, explosive break-bulk

propane; municipal waste, water and sewage treatment chemicals;

firearms, ammunitions; paints, fluids; research liquid nitrogen;

drain oil; electrical transformers among others.

            The vessel is also equipped with a 4.5-ton
                                                                     18


telescoping, pedestal-mounted unit crane that handles 40 percent

of all of our tonnage, including Park Service, concessionaire

and visitor boats to 25 feet and 4.5 tons; construction

materials; demolition materials; occasional airplanes, single

and twin engine; fluid tanks; small dozers; municipal waste;

tractors; trailers; occasional autos when we go to the shipyard,

which we will be going this fall; machinery; municipal

electrical generator sets; explosive break-bulk propane

cylinders; all in addition to scheduled passenger service.     Now,

we don't carry those together.

            [Laughter.]

            CAPT HANRAHAN:   However, under DOT rules, we do carry

-- and you will see that in the inspection report in Attachment

A that you can carry 25 passengers with propane, with break-bulk

propane.    DOT feels that you can kill 25 people, but 26 people

would be unacceptable.

            [Laughter.]

            CAPT HANRAHAN:   It is operated "in commerce," subject

to the same maritime laws and regulations as private sector

shipping.   The crew must meet all U.S. Coast Guard document

requirements as dictated on the vessel's Certificate of

Inspection, and you will that in Attachment A.    And you will not
                                                                  19


see that on the other DOI research vessels cited.

          More recently, the RANGER was equipped with the first

U.S. Coast Guard and EPA-approved ballast water treatment system

on the Great Lakes and was the first to have an approved EPA and

U.S. Coast Guard Ballast Water Management Plan for the control

of aquatic nuisance species on the Great Lakes.   As far as I

know, it is still the only ballast water management plan

approved by the EPA and the U.S. Coast Guard on the Great Lakes

as these new regulations come into being.

          It has an operating crew of nine, including four

officers, an NCCCO-certified crane operator and four deck crew.

We also have a volunteer assistant purser, two snack bar

concessionaire employees and currently one cadet from the Great

Lakes Maritime Academy in Traverse City, Michigan, for a total

of 13.

          All operating crew must be U.S. Coast Guard-documented

per 46 CFR 5.57(a)(1).

          As mentioned above, the ship is inspected by the U.S.

Coast Guard twice annually and is certificated to carry 128

passengers, 650 cubic feet of reefer/freezer cargo, 7,500

gallons of cargo No. 2 oil, personal use flammables, and up to

100 tons of dry package cargo in four different cargo holds.
                                                                   20


           The ship must be dry-docked every 5 years for

inspection by U.S. Coast Guard and the American Bureau of

Shipping, as required by law.

           All machinery is rebuilt on regular mandatory

maintenance schedules; typically, 1-, 3-, and 5-year cycles as

required by U.S. Coast Guard and ABS.   This includes the main

engines, the generator engines, ballast pumps, fire pumps,

turbochargers.   You name it; it's inspected.

           I entered on duty with the Park Service as Captain on

March 27, 1994, and have remained in this position since then.

I have been sailing as a U.S. Coast Guard-licensed officer since

graduation from the Academy in 1977 or 36 years.   I attended the

Academy on the GI Bill after 4 years of honorable military

service in the U.S. Air Force, including 6 months service in

Vietnam.

           Since graduation from the Academy, I have worked

primarily in the Great Lakes shipping industry, with additional

service as Captain with the State of Virginia at Jamestown

Ferry; Captain and Chief Mate of a Corps of Engineers contract

hopper dredge in the Gulf of Mexico, and co-pilot tankerman on

the 110-foot, 200-ton, USNPS FORT JEFFERSON stationed at Key

West, Florida, servicing Dry Tortugas National Park.
                                                                  21


          I have 16 years deck officer experience on the Great

Lakes on self-unloading bulk freighters to 1,000-foot and 80,000

dead weight tons, product tank ships, hopper dredges, bulk-

cement freighters, and ocean-going vessels transiting the Great

Lakes.

          I have also participated as an investigator and

subject-matter expert at NPS request in four marine-related

incidents, including Isle Royale; Channel Islands National Park,

California, two incidents; and Kalaupapa National Historical

Park in Moloka'i, Hawaii.

          I hold a U.S. Coast Guard Master Mariner's license,

unlimited tonnage, for the inland waters of the U.S.; an

unlimited tonnage First Class Pilot's license for Great Lake’s

waters between Duluth, Gary, and Buffalo; and an unlimited

Tankerman's endorsement for supervision of bulk product

transfers of dangerous liquid cargo.   In this capacity, I have

conducted well over 100 transfers of dangerous liquid cargo,

including benzene, xylene, gasoline, and over 20 transfers of

No. 2 oil at Isle Royale in 2012 alone.

          My comments on the DOI pay plan proposal to FPRAC-June

10, 2013 are as follows:

          A few weeks ago, Mr. Mark Allen passed you a DOI
                                                                   22


proposal to adopt a pay plan using "selected rates" from the 070

Detroit area FWS pay schedule, also used by the Corps of

Engineers, DOI's Fish & Wildlife, and U.S. Geological Survey

vessels home-based and operating primarily in the Northern

Michigan 071 FWS wage area.

           There are many problems with the DOI proposal.    First,

the proposal is making a position and wage comparison between

RANGER and the uninspected, non-commerce, non-passenger, non-

oil-carrying, non-hazmat, non-crane, non-scheduled fish research

vessels of DOI's USGS and USFWS Great Lakes fleet.   None of

these vessels require a U.S. Coast Guard-licensed operator since

they are uninspected, non-commerce "public" vessels.   They catch

and release fish, take water and core samples, and that is their

singular mission.   How can DOI tender a wage plan that purports

to equate the Captain of a U.S. Coast Guard-inspected, ABS-

surveyed commerce, passenger, tank, hazmat and crane vessel with

that of a captain of a fishing research vessel?

           All DOI vessels cited in the example are less than

half the tonnage of RANGER; less than half the crew, and perform

a non-commerce, non-critical research mission, primarily in fair

weather.

           The DOI proposal doesn't mention the 25-72 percent
                                                                  23


wage disparity between the Corps of Engineers Floating Plant tug

D.L. BILMAIER and RANGER crew, a wage schedule the NPS agreed to

match at the last NPS-conducted Wage Board.   And that is in

Attachment B.   You will see the minutes from that last Wage

Board, and I would tell you that that was the last Wage Board

that was held for these Wage Board employees, and that was in

1969, April 10th, 1969.

          DOI indicates on page 2, paragraph 4 of its proposal

that the "CFWS replaced the DoD Wage Board System"; however, it

did not replace the DOI Wage Board System.    That system still

exists.

          My understanding of a Wage Board System under 5 USC

5348 is to have a legitimate board of trade knowledgeable people

review the maritime industry rates on a timely basis and

determine a fair prevailing rate for that specialized trade, and

that hasn't happened for RANGER in over 43 years.

          Since 1970, Congress has passed numerous maritime laws

and U.S. Coast Guard, EPA, DOT, OSHA. and DHS have implemented

numerous regulations that directly impact RANGER III everyday

operations and management.

          As previously stated, the NPS agreed on April 10, 1969

to match the wages of Corps Floating Plant supervisory officers
                                                                     24


of the Corps' large tug, SUPERIOR.     This Lake Superior based-tug

was replaced with a smaller but similar tug, the D.L.BILMAIER,

in 1995 and is home-based in the 071 wage area at Duluth,

Minnesota.

             I ask DOI and Mr. Allen to explain how it is that the

Captain of the BILMAIER is currently paid 25 percent more than

me, operating a vessel half the size, with a singular mission to

tow the construction barge, H.J. SCHWARTZ to construction sites?

How can DOI justify the crane operator of the crane barge

SCHWARTZ making more than the captain of a U.S. Coast Guard-

inspected, ABS-classed commerce, passenger, tank, hazmat, and

crane vessel while operating under a comprehensive U.S. Coast

Guard, ABS, DOT, EPA, DHS, and OSHA regulatory regime and

supervising a crew of eight in a hazardous maritime environment?

Of all the Federal vessels mentioned in the DOI proposal, and

those not mentioned, I am the lowest paid captain of all

exampled, commanding the largest vessel by an 85 to 340 percent

margin, and you will see the tonnage of each of those DOI, FWS,

and USGS vessels compared to the RANGER.     And the RANGER's

tonnage is 650.    That's lightship.   Loaded out, it's 835 -- and

certainly, with the most complex mission.

             With passengers, unlimited liability under OPA-90
                                                                  25


operating on the fresh waters of Lake Superior, in a hostile

marine-operating environment, how is it that I make less than

the captain of a 190-ton fish research workboat, the USGS

GRAYLING and less than the crane operator on a flat anchored

crane barge (COE SCHWARTZ)?

          Since the last Wage Board determination made in 1969,

Congress has imposed laws and regulations, including the Oil

Pollution Act of 1990, the Maritime Transportation Security Act

of 2004, the DOT Transportation of Hazardous Materials

regulations introduced in 1975, OSHA crane regulations including

everything below the hook on our crane, U.S. Coast Guard

stability regulations, and recently the control of aquatic

nuisance species under new Ballast Water Regulations (33 CFR

151).

          My position monitors compliance, conducts drills and

exercises, maintains logs, provides hazmat and program training

under OPA-90, MTSA, and OSHA, in addition to administrating

these programs.   I also administrate the Park's OPA-90 program

for the Park's gasoline tank barge GREENSTONE II and the

Petroleum Storage Complex, which has five terminals.   You will

see on the U.S. Coast Guard VRP webpage, both the GREENSTONE II

and the RANGER III listed.    You will see my name on both of
                                                                    26


those plans.   I wrote both of those plans, and I still maintain

those.   In fact, I just recently sent in the RANGER's 5-year

plan.

           I also maintain all of the complex plans for the five

different storage terminals at Isle Royale.

           I also administrate vessel and terminal transfer

procedures, facility operation manuals, ordering and inspecting

equipment and personal protective equipment for the five storage

sites at Isle Royale under 33 CFR 154.

           Even though my supervisor and the Park Superintendent

have acknowledged and endorsed these added responsibilities, you

will see in Attachment D a proposed, revised position

description that both the Superintendent and my supervisor, a

42-year NPS veteran, signed and put in.   That still has not been

endorsed or accepted.

           Under these laws and regulations, NPS has refused to

revise or acknowledge these in my official PD or conduct an

official classification appeal (desk audit), as requested by my

supervisor.    In fact, I was told that I would be disciplined if

I did not continue to administrate these programs, even though

these added responsibilities are not in my official PD.

           DOI indicates in their proposal documents that NPS
                                                                    27


changed from marine Wage Board surveys under 5 USC 5348(a) in

1970 to 5348(b) because NPS determined that there was inadequate

maritime industry from which to make wage comparisons.    If this

is the determination, how can other DOI, USFWS, and USGS vessels

in the same wage area make wage comparisons with Corps of

Engineers' floating plant vessels?   Please refer to the Agency

Special Wage Schedules, Evaluation Plan that is Attachment A in

the DOI proposal for USGS and USFWS that state, "The grading

structure is based on a comparison and analysis of the duties

and responsibilities of Bureau vessel employees with comparable

jobs in the Corps of Engineers."   If there is inadequate

maritime industry for NPS to make a marine wage comparison in

the same wage area, how can DOI, USFWS, and USGS make a marine

wage comparison in the same wage area with the Corps?    These are

contradictory pay plan statements, documented in the Special

Rate Schedules, and you can see that in the DOI proposal in

their handout.   Does OPM endorse DOI's interpretation and

determination of “inadequate maritime industry” under 5348(b) as

required in Subchapter S1 Basic Authorities (Attachment E)?    And

you will see in Attachment E, if you go to Subchapter S1-4 Pay-

Fixing Authority, under (b)(4) Vessel Employees in Areas in

Which Inadequate Maritime Industry Exists, it says upon
                                                                   28


recommendation of the agency and approval by the Office of

Personnel Management, vessel employees in an area where

inadequate maritime industry practice exists shall have their

pay fixed and adjusted under the regular wage schedule for the

area, or under a special schedule, rather than in accordance

with maritime rates and practices.   I don't believe that that

exists.

You have Fish and Wildlife and U.S. Geological Survey making

marine comparisons in the same wage area, and then the Park

Service saying you cannot do a marine wage comparison in the

same wage area.   You have two contradictory plans here, and

that's why OPM needs to endorse these and say, "Yes, you can

make that determination," but that was not done.

          The Corps' Floating Plant (XH) schedule is a marine

industry survey based rate for supervisory, USCG licensed 9900

series vessel operators (see Attachment F).   XH schedule people

on board the BILMAIER are the 9900 series officers.   And I want

to clarify something here that probably some people are going to

be confused on.   Fish and Wildlife, USGS, Corps of Engineers,

non-commerce public vessels, they do not require a license;

however, the agencies require these people to have a license to

get the position.   And the reason they do that is because,
                                                                  29


unlike the U.S. Navy or the U.S. Coast Guard, the agencies do

not have the capability to endorse and qualify these people.     So

they allow the Coast Guard to do that by requiring the license,

but the Coast Guard does not require the tug BILMAIER, the

GRAYLING, these other research vessels to have a license.

RANGER, they do.

          So, the Corps Floating Plant (XH) schedule is a marine

industry survey based rate for supervisory, U.S. Coast Guard

licensed 9900 series vessel operators.   How can this be if there

is “inadequate maritime industry”, as NPS determined?   And if

you refer to page 18, paragraph 1, of the NPS's 1980 position

paper, which is contained in the DOI proposal as Attachment F,

in the proposal, please read what NPS said of the Corps vessels:

"They are not considered vessels and therefore are not listed

under that category.   Since these are not comparable situations,

the RANGER III pay schedule cannot be based on the Corps'

schedule, just as the maritime industry cannot be used due to

lack of comparability."

          If you refer back to the 1969 Wage Board minutes, you

will see that it was in fact Department of Interior, National

Park Service that proposed to use the Corps' schedules, in which

in the mid-'70s, they then reversed themselves and said, "These
                                                                   30


are not vessels.   We can't use them for comparison," and the

reason was because the Corps still used a maritime survey to

determine those wages, and during that period on the Great

Lakes, the industry was going through consolidation.   They were

enlarging these vessels.   They were putting sections into these

vessels, made them bigger, to carry more cargo.   They eventually

then consolidated even further when they went to 1,000-foot

vessels, in which there's now 13 of them on the Great Lakes.

And union considerations, they didn't mind paying a captain

another $30,000 or $40,000 because he was carrying -- he or she,

excuse me -- he or she was carrying that much more cargo.

            The ship I started on in 1974 when I first started out

carried 17,000 tons.   These thousand-footers are now carrying

80,000 tons.

            So when the unions negotiated as four or five of these

smaller vessels went to the scrapyard, these bigger ships came

out.   Wages were going up, and that's partially why these wages

in the maritime end went up higher.   And obviously, you will see

in later attachments here that in fact those now reach into

$320,000.

            How can DOI's USFWS and USGS agencies use the Corps

Floating Plant Schedules for comparison as stated in their
                                                                   31


evaluation plan if “these are not vessels”?   If these are not

vessels, why does the Corps require U.S. Coast Guard licenses to

obtain the positions?   Are Corps floating plant vessels for

USFWS and USGS wage plan purposes but not for NPS?

            Also, how can the maritime industry on the Great Lakes

be excluded for wage comparisons when the RANGER is part of that

commercial maritime industry?   Again, the RANGER III is in

commerce.   It's part of that commercial industry on the Great

Lakes, and if you look on marinetraffic.com at any time, you

will see the AIS returns.   You will see that there's significant

maritime industry on the Great Lakes.

            If you will please again refer to page 18 in the NPS

position paper, page 2, “In December 1972, the NERO, NPS

Regional Office, constructed a multi-step rate system for the

RANGER III positions; however, their conclusion was that that

type of pay system was viewed as extremely expensive.   They

stated that such a system would provide incentive increases

beyond that warranted by the true change in wage structures for

the marine industry of the Great Lakes area”.

            Please note that in the first paragraph on page 18,

NPS said the Great Lakes maritime industry could not be used for

wage determination due to lack of comparability, but then NPS
                                                                   32


used comparability with the industry to block any possibility of

adding steps, as every other Federal vessel on the Great Lakes

has.

          In order to compute Great Lakes, St. Lawrence Seaway

pilotage rates, U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters surveys Great

Lakes captains' and first mates' wages.   The 2013 survey,

printed in the Federal Register, shows total captain wage

packages ranging from $231,000 to $320,000 respectively for 9

months work (see Attachment G).

          While these vessels are significantly larger, it does

illustrate the top of the range.   There are few mariners on the

Great Lakes with 1,600-ton deck licenses and 2,000 horsepower

engineering licenses, the minimum required for RANGER.

          Here, let me explain that there's two pools that you

pull your people from, and those pools are the 100-ton, the T-

boat, which is the recreational, and then you go into those

commerce vessels on the Great Lakes, and those are all typically

bulk freighters that are 4,000-ton and above.    That's the pool

of mariners that you typically will hire from.   In the Gulf of

Mexico is those midrange-type vessels, but on both the East and

the West Coast, typically those are unlimited horsepower

licenses and unlimited tonnage licenses, and that's the primary
                                                                   33


pool that you have to pull from.    You can't pull from the

recreational vessel pool, these tour boats and whatnot, because

they're 100-ton or less.    And the Coast Guard issues licenses in

the 100-ton, 200-ton.     Then they jump to 500-ton, then to 1,600-

ton, then to unlimited.

          Most current and former RANGER employees have

unlimited tonnage, horsepower, and AB seaman documents.    Is it

any surprise that the USA Job announcements for the chiefs' and

assistant engineers' positions received only one applicant after

14 postings in the 2011 and 2012 period?    The last posting

offered a $7,500 sign-on bonus but only received one applicant,

and that ran continuously for more than 8 months.

          The DOI proposal indicates that the Captain of the

USGS KIYI, stationed at Ashland, Wisconsin, is a Wage Board

employee, like the others exampled; however, this isn't the

case. Captain Joe Walters of KIYI is a General Schedule Marine

Operations Specialist, not an "excepted service" Wage Board

employee, as indicated.    The same is true for Captain Sam Miller

and the Chief Engineer on EPA's LAKE EXPLORER II that is home-

based in Duluth, Minnesota.

          DOI has left these Corps and EPA vessels out of the

proposal and has misrepresented the KIYI wage plan.     The reality
                                                                   34


is there are four different DOI marine pay plans being used in

the 071 wage area alone, including Wage Board employees, Wage

Board with steps, General Schedule with steps, and regular FWS

employees with steps.   The RANGER is the only vessel without

steps, and as wages have been frozen by the President for the

last 4 years, all other Federal employees, including all Great

Lakes marine employees, continue to receive step increases

during this wage freeze.   Again, the RANGER got shorted; again,

as NPS continued to claim they were studying the pay issue.     See

Attachment H, and if you'll look at that, you will see that the

pay plan on the vessel RANGER has been an issue since 1999, and

you can see the schedule that National Park Service put out, and

it's still unresolved at this point.   Fourteen years later, it's

still unresolved.

          On August 12, 2012, NPS proposed a fixed wage marine

pay plan (WM) used by NOAA.   The NPS lead HR specialist, a 30-

plus-year GS-14, proposed this wage plan, (see Attachment I),

using NOAA's wage formula, a combination of tonnage and

horsepower.

          Consider that I command a commerce passenger, tank,

hazmat, and crane ship that is larger than some NOAA vessels and

has a compressed schedule of 44 trips per year, making four
                                                                    35


dockings per trip, many in high wind and restricted visibility

conditions -- this is what the Coast Guard calls "adverse

weather" under OPA-90 parlance -- on a fixed passenger schedule,

in a rocky, unforgiving maritime environment with few aids-to-

navigation -- and I mean buoys and racons.   A racon is a Morse

Code signature that shows up on radar that identifies a

particular dangerous area.    We don't have those at Isle Royale.

           Despite these factors, the HR specialist, in

consultation with a NOAA HR specialist using the NOAA formula,

came up with a pay plan that actually reduced my wages.   And if

you will -- just as a side note on that, if you look at that

particular proposal, the NOAA proposal, the math was incorrect

where it stated the wage that they proposed for me at $39.90 an

hour.   If you do the math, it is actually $39.09, which would

mean I would get a pay cut.

           Having spoken many times with senior NOAA officers

while trying to hire a chief engineer, these officers, after

seeing pictures of the RANGER, believed the ship to be a Class

III vessel by the NOAA classing formula.

           Believing something must be wrong, I closely reviewed

NPS's proposal and discovered that both the NPS and the NOAA HR

managers mistakenly assumed “international tonnage” was the same
                                                                   36


as “Great Lakes gross-rated tonnage”.     However, international

tonnage is a measure of the interior volume of a vessel measured

in 100 cubic feet per ton, while gross-rated tonnage is a

measure of weight or light ship displacement in short tons.     Had

I not caught this error, all RANGER crew would be making less

today.

          When I notified the ISRO superintendent, the NPS lead

HR specialist, and the NPS Midwest regional director of the

error and my own corrected wage figure of $126,000 annually

based on a U.S. Coast Guard conversion factor, the proposal was

dropped like a hot potato.   And you will see that in Attachment

J.

          It's not surprising that this proposal is not

mentioned in this current DOI proposal.    If the NPS lead HR

specialist and the NOAA HR specialist can't tell the difference

between international tons and gross-rated tons on a critical

pay plan formula, how credible can the NPS determination be that

there is “inadequate maritime industry on the Great Lakes from

which to make a comparison”, a determination made over 43 years

ago that contradicts the current DOI USFWS and USGS wage plan?

          On December 31, 2010, Edward Hickey, RANGER's former

chief engineer, retired.   He was frustrated with the pay issues,
                                                                    37


disparate pay, unpaid lunch while on duty, the meals and

incidental disparity, and ever-increasing responsibilities of

the position.    His vacated position was posted 14 times on

USAJOBS, and I interviewed at least six applicants.     None took

the position when offered, and pay was the reason.

             I eventually did hire Peter Tormala, a young marine

engineer that was working for Crowley Maritime.    He hadn't

applied for the chief engineer's position; rather, the assistant

engineer's position, which was vacated when Assistant Engineer

Charles Hamel retired in June of 2011. Mr. Tormala had 6 years'

experience as a marine engineer, none as 1st Assistant or Chief

Engineer, and was working as a 2nd Assistant Engineer on a West

Coast tank ship.    I told him that with his unlimited horsepower

Second Assistant's license, he could qualify for the Chief

Engineer's position.    I asked if he was interested.   He said

yes, and I hired him off the Assistant Engineer's Certificate of

Eligibles.

             He filled the position for 6 months, then resigned and

went back to his former second assistant position due to pay.       I

will tell you that he makes over $110,000 now in that position,

and that's for 180 days work.    He works 75 days on, 75 off, does

that all year.
                                                                     38


             Former Chief Engineer Ed Hickey luckily and graciously

agreed to work again until a new Chief Engineer could be hired,

but this time as a contractor at $620 a day or $77.50/hr, not as

a reemployed annuitant at $300 a day, ($37.53/hr or $51.42/hr

with benefits included), as he had in 2011.    He decided to work

as a contractor because he knew the Park was paying more for

contracted employees.    And it is $750 a day, that's $93.75 an

hour for a contracted Captain (see Attachment K).    That rate was

paid while I took my wife for medical treatments in Marshfield,

Wisconsin.

             And I will tell you that as I sit here today, Captain

Terry Reynolds of ABCD Marine, which also provides pilotage

services for all of the LCS vessels coming out of Marinette

Marine, all of the Coast Guard vessels coming out of Marinette

Marine, and NOAA vessels coming out of Marinette Marine, he is

standing by for me.    He made the trip on Tuesday and Wednesday.

He will make a trip today, Friday, and Saturday, and the

taxpayers are paying him $750 for me to be here -- per day.    He

did this because he knew the Park was paying $750 a day for the

contracted captain.

             The assistant engineer's position was re-advertised,

and only one applicant, Gregg Burr, applied, a recent graduate
                                                                   39


of the Great Lakes Maritime Academy in Traverse City, Michigan,

with no experience as a licensed marine engineer.   He was hired

in September of 2011 and resigned in June this year, right after

the Park spent $10,000 in training costs to get this employee a

U.S. Coast Guard tankerman's endorsement (see Attachment A),

necessary to transfer cargo oil under OPA-90.   He now works for

Overseas Group Incorporated, a tanker fleet in the Gulf of

Mexico, as a Third Assistant Engineer making $95,000 a year for

a 180-day year or $528 a day, not including pension or medical

plans.   His NPS pay was $28.48 an hour or $215 a day for 260

days or $56,000 annually, benefits not included.    And this was

less than a backfill, seasonal, motorboat operator at Voyageurs

National Park (see Attachment L).

           Here is a guy that has a 4-year degree, graduated from

the Academy, has to have a Coast Guard license, has to have a

TWIC, has to have an OSHA, has to have all of these documents,

and he's making less than a motorboat operator at Voyageurs

National Park.

           This vacated position is currently being held up by

the sequestration awaiting an NPS waiver, as the Park pays

another contractor $450 a day to fill this mandatory position -

not with a Marine Engineer, but with a Marine Oiler.   And again
                                                                      40


-- this oiler comes to us from ABCD Marine, same company that

provides these positions for the Navy and NOAA.

            And because the contracted person does not have a U.S.

Coast Guard Tankerman's Endorsement, NPS is paying an additional

$620 a day to former Chief Engineer Hickey when cargo oil must

be loaded and unloaded, and that is approximately 20 to 24 times

per year.

            Right now, I am eight loads of oil behind at Isle

Royale.    There's more than a quarter of a million dollars

sitting in an account right now to pay for that oil to be

delivered to Isle Royale, and it's doubtful that I will be able

to deliver that many loads of oil before the end of the fiscal

year, which means that money will have to be de-obligated out of

those accounts and then re-obligated and possibly carried over

to 2014.    It's all dependent on Mr. Hickey's schedule.    If he's

available, then I have to notify him that I need him for the

transfer of the oil, and if not, I can't transfer oil.

            Also, as indicated in the DOI proposal, NOAA Chief

Engineer Jeff Hokkanen of the NOAA vessel OSCAR DYSON, has a

base pay of $147,000 annually and with mandatory overtime makes

$162,000, not including benefits.   I interviewed this gentleman

to take the Chief Engineer's position on the RANGER.       I only got
                                                                     41


halfway through the interview, and when he found out he had to

take a 52 percent pay cut to come to the RANGER, because he was

from Duluth, Minnesota, he just ended the interview right there

and then.

             How can there be such a disparate hourly wage for

essentially the same engineering job and same U.S. Coast Guard

license?    The Chief Engineer's position vacated by Mr. Tormala

was posted again in the spring of 2012, now with a $7,500 sign-

on bonus, continuously this time, until the Chief Engineer was

hired in February of this year.    He was a 2nd Assistant Engineer

with NOAA.    It was on the MacARTHUR II.   He had no experience as

a Chief or 1st Assistant Engineer and was the sole applicant on

the Certificate of Eligibles.    He was a 10-point vet.   He was

the only applicant I had virtually.    He had the job.    I didn't

even do an interview.

             The RANGER crane operator, David Latvala, is paid 72

percent less than the crane operator of the 071 wage area Corps

crane barge H.J. SCHWARTZ, which I indicated to you makes more

than me, and 18 percent less than Isle Royale's own land-based

crane operators (see Attachment M).    And again, this is a non-

commerce position at Isle Royale in the Park.

             This gentleman -- we actually have two crane operators
                                                                       42


on the shore that operate a mobile crane and also a travel lift.

They are paid $5 more per hour than Mr. Latvala, and Mr. Latvala

has to have a certification by NCCO because the RANGER is in

commerce, and yet he's still $5 an hour less than that and 72

percent less than the crane operator on the H.J. SCHWARTZ, which

is the Corps of Engineers.

             And I might add that there are no stability

considerations when you do a lift with that crane barge because

it is a spud barge.    It is anchored to the ground when you make

a lift, where on the RANGER III, you have to consider all of the

ballast and the bottom when you make a lift.    That lift has to

be offset.    When you're making a 90-degree, swinging a boom out

on a crane, and you're making a lift of 4-1/2 tons, you have to

know what's in the bottom of the ship before you make that lift.

We are not attached to the ground when we do that.

             Mr. Latvala requested a desk audit in 2009.    NPS paid

$1,600 to have this desk audit performed by an NPS Denver

Service Center contractor.    His position was classified

equivalent to a WG-11 by the contractor, while he is currently

paid equivalent to a fixed WG-9/3.    Despite being graded at WG-

11 by the contractor, the NPS MWRO regional HR office, who

requested and paid for the audit, discarded the audit and then
                                                                   43


said “only OPM can classify a Wage Board position”.

            At the very same time, Madeline Gonzalez, the

Ombudsperson for OPM, said “DOI retains authority to classify

and pay employees on the vessel” -- and this was by their

special set-aside authority -- the exact opposite of what NPS HR

had said.   At best, Mr. Latvala is losing $6,600 per 33 weeks

annual employment since July of 2009 and at worst $22,000 for 33

weeks compared to the Corps SCHWARTZ crane operator, contrary to

5 USC 5341(1).

            I also had requested a desk audit, which my

supervisor, a 42-year NPS veteran, requested in 2006 (Attachment

D), but this was held up until Mr. Latvala's was completed.

When his was rejected by the regional NPS HR office, my desk

audit request was disregarded and shelved by NPS.   It still has

not been endorsed by NPS or accepted.

            In addition to RANGER pay issues, the Park's tug and

barge operation, also a U.S. Coast Guard-licensed “commerce”

position, but not Wage Board -- this is a WG-12, and I might add

that in my mind that is impossible to do since WG is a non-

supervisory position.   For the captain to have to have a

license, a tankerman's certificate, and be pulling an OPA-90

gasoline barge, one would think that he would have to be a
                                                                   44


supervisor.   It's incomprehensible to me that the person would

be a WG as opposed to a WS and frankly should be Wage Board as

far as I'm concerned.

          That operation is at a standstill.   The Park has been

unable to hire a tug Captain/tankerman for over 2 years since

the former Captain, Joe Bergan, frustrated over pay and work

issues, defected to USGS as the captain of the USGS GRAYLING,

leaving no backfill Captain, Mate, AB, or Oiler for RANGER.

This particular gentleman, a hardworking guy, had all of the

endorsements, so that if I were off the vessel, the First Mate

were off the vessel, Oiler was off the vessel, AB was off the

vessel, this guy could fill it because he had those credentials,

and he was gone.   He just recently said that he would not come

back.

          He started with USGS on a 75-foot, 190-ton fish

research vessel at a higher rate of pay than I make on this 165-

foot, 650-ton U.S. Coast Guard-inspected passenger, oil, crane

vessel, and I have been in this position for 20 years.   He has

no passengers, no cargo oil, no cargo hazmat, no U.S. Coast

Guard or ABS inspection regime to manage or comply with, no

marine work rules, no firearms, no deck cargo other than fish,

no dangerous cargo manifest to fill out, no stability
                                                                   45


calculations, no OPA-90, no MTSA, no sea marshals, and he

operates this workboat with two crew in fair weather.

           In addition, USGS receives full travel per diem

($66/day) for their Headquarters, not for where the boat is

stationed, while RANGER's crew is less than one-third of the GSA

travel allowance for meals and incidental expenses at $20 a day.

           This is the current NPS state of affairs, disastrous

by most HR standards, dangerous by marine.

           My proposal - first, I will propose that management

and administration of this commerce maritime wage plan be

removed from DOI/NPS and moved to OPM, MSC, or the Corps.    I

firmly believe, as do all crew (current, former, or retired),

that DOI/NPS has abused their “special set-aside authority” and

is intentionally undermining the “prevailing rates” of this

unique Wage Board vessel crew.   This latest proposal is just a

continuation of this.

           They have also denied crew of the basic right to have

their position descriptions revised and audited, so that a fair

wage can be determined based upon position responsibilities,

risk management (and Federal liabilities) by a legitimate Wage

Board.   Neither DOI nor NPS has the maritime industry knowledge

or marine HR experience to manage this wage program.    Again, see
                                                                   46


Attachments H and I.   I think that illustrates what I'm talking

about.

          I would also advise that the Park's U.S. Coast Guard

inspected tug SHELTER BAY and OPA-90 gasoline tank barge

GREENSTONE II be added to the Wage Board pay plan and managed by

OPM, Corps, or other agency with maritime knowledge due to the

U.S. Coast Guard-inspected status, unlimited liability of OPA-

90, MTSA inclusion, often adverse weather, unforgiving operating

environment, marginal equipment, and USCG licensing required to

safely perform this hazardous job upon the fresh waters of Lake

Superior, in a wilderness National Park, with limited aids to

navigation.

          My proposal for the master's wage plan is to adopt an

hourly rate that acknowledges the responsibilities and unlimited

liabilities of operating a passenger, tank, and hazmat-carrying

vessel in commerce under a U.S. Coast Guard and ABS inspection

regime in a hazardous, unforgiving marine environment.

          In addition to the operational responsibilities

assigned to me, I also am responsible for administrating the

OPA-90 program, enforcement and partial administration of the

MTSA program, acceptance and carriage of firearms and

ammunition, a new paradigm in National Parks, liaison with U.S.
                                                                     47


Coast Guard Headquarters VRP section, Superintendent of Navy

Salvage, U.S. Coast Guard D-9 contract officers and the U.S.

Coast Guard Captain of the Port MSU Duluth, administration and

compliance of the Ballast Water Treatment Program, shipyard dry-

docking contract document preparation, which this last pay

period I had 32 hours overtime -- and that was preparing the

dry-document contract that's coming up for this fall, which I

will be the contract officer's technical representative for

these contracts -- preparing position announcements, which I've

done several, selecting candidates from qualified lists of

applicants, preparing and submitting annual and long-term

budgets, supervising a crew of eight, hazmat and OPA-90

training, which I do every year, all those items that a full

vessel department would be responsible for at any other agency

or commerce shipping company.

          I am proposing that the Master of the RANGER be paid

the same hourly rate as a Corps of Engineers Hopper Dredge

Captain, WJ-16 or $58.06 an hour.   It's in Attachment N.    While

some Corps hopper dredges are larger by tonnage than RANGER,

their singular mission is to suck up mud from channels.     I know,

I've been there, I've been a captain on a dredge -- no

passengers, no hazmat, no dangerous cargo manifests, no OPA-90,
                                                                  48


no firearms, no sea marshals, no flammables, no cargo oil, and

they have vessel shore-side administrative support from a marine

management office.

          What RANGER lacks in size is certainly offset by the

mission responsibilities and liabilities of passengers, oil,

crane, maritime security, and hazmat service on top of my

administrative duties.

          Also, Corps hopper dredges are U.S. Coast Guard

inspected and ABS classed, a strict inspection regime not

imposed on Corps floating plant vessels (Tug BILMAIER) or the

Federal vessels DOI is using as a comparison in their current

pay plan proposal.

          As far as the crew, I will propose that the RANGER

officers also be placed on the Hopper Dredge Schedule and

unlicensed positions placed on the Corps Great Lakes Floating

Plant Schedules.

          I will reverse myself on that.   I would propose that

all of the crew go onto the Hopper Dredge Schedules, and the

reason is because as far as my research is, it's that on the

Floating Plant Schedule for Detroit, they do not have AB seamen.

They just don't use ABs to my knowledge, where the hopper

dredges do use ABs or able-bodied seamen is the certification.
                                                                   49


So I would propose -- I would change this to just put the whole

crew on the Hopper Dredge Schedules.

          Because our crane operations are ultimately supervised

by the Captain and First Officer, I propose that the crane

operator be paid the same rate as a non-supervisory crane

operator on the Corps Floating Plant or Hopper Dredge Schedules,

whichever, or approximately $32 per hour.

          As indicated in the DOI proposal, DOI/NPS still has

not officially acknowledged, revised, or classified   RANGER PDs

even after a more than a decade -- see Attachment D -- another

reason to move management of this program to OPM or the Corps.

          I also request that the FPRAC recommend that each PD

be revised and pay adjustments made by a legitimate Wage Board

for the start of FY14.   This crew has been punished enough

without additional delays and HR mumbo-jumbo deliberations.

This has been 13 years, actually 14, of "malarkey" as Vice

President would say.   Again, see Attachment H.

          My hopes are that the FPRAC will study the vessel's

comparative operations closely against other agency vessels,

ocean, lakes, and brown water; consult with the U.S. Coast Guard

Marine Inspection office in Duluth; speak with my supervisor,

Keith Butler; consider each crewmember's position
                                                                        50


responsibilities; evaluate the Federal risk and liability of

operating a passenger, tank, and hazmat vessel in this hazardous

marine operating environment; and ultimately produce a fair wage

for this crew that complies with 5 USC 5348(a) -- not (b) -- and

5341(1-4).

             If you have any questions, I will do my best to answer

these, and thank you for this opportunity to speak and submit

this document for the record.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Thank you very much, Captain

Hanrahan, for your very comprehensive remarks.

             I would like to ask if any of our DOI visitors would

like to add anything at this point, or if not, we can go

directly to questions and discussion.        Do any of you want to

respond?

                  MR. HOWARD:     We don't have any comments at this

time.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.    In that case, let me open

it up to members of the Committee.         Any questions or discussion?

                  MR. BERNHARDT:    I have a few questions,

Mr. Chairman.

             First of all, Captain, thank you for that

presentation.    My first question is, What took you so long?
                                                                   51


           CAPT HANRAHAN:   What took me so long to get here?

           MR. BERNHARDT:   To be here with us today.

           CAPT HANRAHAN:   The research that I have done over

several years, it involved numerous FOIA requests.      I still have

FOIA requests pending with OPM, as Madeline is probably aware

of.   Going to a step system has been brought up numerous times,

and numerous times it was blocked by NPS.   And I'm still waiting

on some FOIA requests.

           It just takes a lot of time to gather all of this

data, and then it can be termed as a complex issue, if you want

to look at it that way, because the RANGER III is a unique

vessel.   There's no doubt about it, but it just takes a lot of

time to put all of this information together and figure it out,

and after a certain amount of time -- I mean, nobody on the crew

wants to pick a fight with Park Service.    Nobody wants to get

into a rigmarole fight over this thing.    They tried to work

through every channel possible to do this, including the

grievance process, only after several discussions.

           The original lead HR specialist from the Midwest

Regional Office, as I said, came on board in 1999, talked to the

crew then, and resolved to look at the situation and resolve it.

At no time in all of the last 14 years did NPS come forward and
                                                                    52


say, "Look, you guys, as far as we're concerned, you are paid

adequately under 5 USC 5348(b)."     Nobody ever said that.   It was

always, "We're studying it.     We're doing this.   We're looking at

this.    We're doing this."   It was always some excuse and --

            MR. BERNHARDT:    You were strung along.

            All you would have had to tell me is that they reduced

your hours to 32 per week, and I would have thought Wal-Mart was

running this ship.

            You have painted a picture of exploitation that is --

I'm outraged sitting here listening to it.

            CAPT HANRAHAN:    You know, these are all pretty good

working guys.   I think everybody wants a fair wage, but they are

convinced, as I am, that they've ended up on the short end of

the stick here.

            Everybody knows that this vessel performs far beyond

the research vessels, far beyond a tug for the Corps.

            Mr. Allen's comment about saltwater vessels, MSC, NOAA

- I don't buy that.    Saltwater, freshwater - when you're an

engineer, it doesn't make any difference.     For the deck

officers, it doesn't make any difference.     You're standing a

watch.   You stand at 8 hours a day.    You get paid on an hourly

basis, yet if you work more, which they will on saltwater
                                                                    53


vessels because they are working different watches, they get

paid overtime.   They are remunerated for that overtime, but the

hourly rate is the issue.

          The other thing is this has been a fixed rate, and it

has been that for 55 years.    This is almost some kind of hybrid

between 5348(a) and 5348(b) where there are no steps versus (a),

where the wages get reviewed every year.

          And I don't think, you know, I wouldn't expect that a

marine survey be done every year.   I would expect that every 2

years maybe or every 3 years, you would review that, but to

extract this vessel from the maritime industry and now try to

hook it onto an FWS wage schedule that essentially is a survey

of construction trade industry versus the maritime industry just

isn't fair.   It should, as far as I'm concerned, stay in the

5348(a) category, and should have never left that.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any other questions?

          MR. BERNHARDT:    Yeah, one more question, Mr. Chairman.

          Where do the funds to pay the crew come from?    Are

they appropriated funds, or do they come from some other kind of

source?

          CAPT HANRAHAN:    They come from appropriated funds, but

there are also revenues.    There are obviously revenues involved
                                                                     54


here.   The total budget is in the $700,000 annual range.    About

$200- to $230,000 are recovered in revenues.   Some people would

say that that's operating in the red.   Well, that's not the case

because you are transporting -- there's three users of this

vessel, and that is the Park Service, the exclusive concession

at Isle Royale National Park, and then the general public.    The

revenues are coming from the general public.   You're looking at

about, as I said, $200- to $230,000; however, the other half of

that is some reduced freight rates that are accommodating the

exclusive concessionaire, and then NPS obviously doesn't pay

rates to themselves.

           So transporting the oil, the majority of the oil is

transported for generators on the island to produce electricity

at three different power stations, but it's also transported for

the concessionaire who uses it for their tour vessel, for

heating up the lodge units, and then they also sell diesel oil

at the marina.

           And the reason that they do this -- and you're saying,

"Well, why not eliminate that function?"   If you eliminate that

function and they've considered that, people will bring gasoline

and oil in 30-gallon drums, and you end up at the camp grounds

with drums of gasoline.
                                                                     55


            I can remember one example of a fairly large charter

boat coming out there, and he had about twelve 5-gallon cans,

plastic cans of gasoline on the top of his cabin.     I was

thinking to myself, that thing is just a bomb waiting for a

spark to happen, and that's primarily why the Park Service

through the concessionaire sells oil and gasoline at the marina

there.

            One other thing, Isle Royale is -- for those who are

not familiar with Isle Royale, it's in the middle of Lake

Superior.   It's a 76-mile trip.    It's 6 hours on the RANGER III

to get there.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any other questions or discussion?

            MR. ALLEN:   I'd like to thank you very much for coming

today.   You are the expert.     This is a lot of good information

you've provided.

            We currently have two ideas that we should consider.

I think one is the current recommendation from the Park Service

-- National Park Service, and the Department of the Interior and

yours, which is to link the crew of your vessel to the same kind

of practices as the Army Corps of Engineers follows for their

hopper dredge.

            CAPT HANRAHAN:   It would go to the Hopper Dredge
                                                                       56


Schedules.    The only thing, I don't think that the Hopper Dredge

Schedules, they may not have a crane operator on there, so I do

not know.    If not, then as I said, use the nonsupervisory crane

operator with the Corps, which is approximately $32 an hour,

which is still $7 an hour short of the crane operator on the

H.J. SCHWARTZ, which is a supervisory position.       The particular

person in that position supervises the operations of that barge,

not the Captain of the tug.

             MR. ALLEN:   But that sounds like the issue with the

crane operator position could be resolved by aligning that

position's duties with other jobs that the Army Corps of

Engineers has --

             CAPT HANRAHAN:   I would say so and --

             MR. ALLEN:   It's not a problem that's incapable of

being solved.

             CAPT HANRAHAN:   As I said, he makes 72 percent less,

and as he said, if the guy drops -- Corps of Engineers drops a

rock, you just pick up another one.     If you drop a single-engine

airplane that cost $700,000, which he has picked up, we pick up

boats regularly there that cost $200,000 on a regular basis, and

he puts more time on the crane probably in a week than our two

land-based crane operators put in, in a season.       And yet he's $5
                                                                    57


a less than our land-based crane operators.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Anything else?

           MR. BERNHARDT:   One thought, and I ask this almost

rhetorically because I don't think we can expect to have the

answer.   But what if we did a straight-out survey of the

maritime industry on the lakes?    Would we find sufficient

matches to make a schedule?

           MR. ALLEN:   I can't really speculate on that.     OPM

does not administer the -- actually, I don't think anybody

actually does a survey --

           MR. BERNHARDT:   I don't think so, either.

           MR. ALLEN:   -- for the maritime industry on the Great

Lakes.

           The rates under 5348 tend to be based on union scale,

the National Maritime Union and other unions that represent

members of vessels, crewmembers.

           So, most likely, we -- there's plenty of data out

there based on the union scale.    I don't actually have access to

that myself, but it would not be too difficult for somebody to

find out what they are.

           CAPT HANRAHAN:   As I said -- and it is in the

attachments in the Federal Register -- the U.S. Coast Guard does
                                                                      58


do surveys on a regular basis on Captains, Great Lakes Captains

and First Mate's wages, and the reason they do that is because

they determine the rates set on the St. Lawrence Seaways such

that the piloting organizations, that's how their pay is

determined.

           And as you'll see in that, the total package for the

captain was between $230- and $320,000, and that's the total

package.   That's medical, all those benefits for a Captain's

pay.   That's how they determine the pilotage rates, - there is

data there that the Coast Guard surveys.     There's a specific

person in Coast Guard Headquarters that does that.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Yes?

           MS. GAILES:   I was just going to ask in that instance,

just to make sure that it's considered - the route that the

RANGER III goes versus where the other ships are going and

making sure that's a comparable maritime industry, if that is

what is decided.

           And also, in terms of the Hopper Dredge Schedule, I

don't see in the proposal, the area that they're using.     So if

that could be provided to us, that would be good as well.

           MR. ALLEN:    I believe it would be Detroit.

           CAPT HANRAHAN:   No.    There's only an East Coast and a
                                                                    59


West Coast Hopper Dredge Schedule.    They contract-out dredging

on the Great Lakes.    However, that may change since they

reportedly have a dredging crisis.    You may see a Corps dredge

come back in the Lakes, but they use just an East and a West

Coast schedule.

          And you'll see the one that I have in my attachments

as a West Coast schedule -- announcement is what it is.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Jim, do you want to enlighten us

more on that?   Are those schedules developed by your unit?

          MR. BRADY:    Yes.   We develop them manually, and they

are developed based on wage areas, number of wage areas that

exist, and it's a combination average of the rates for East Cost

and West Coast.

          MR. BERNHARDT:    Which one is higher, Jim?

          MR. BRADY:    Off the top of my head, I don't know.

          MR. BERNHARDT:    We want the higher one, okay?

          [Laughter.]

          MR. BRADY:    It's in the middle of the country.

          [Laughter.]

          MR. ALLEN:    In Attachment D to the OPM document 585-

OPM-1, we have a Hopper Dredge Schedule, which applies to the

U.S. Army, the U.S. Army Engineer District Detroit, Michigan.
                                                                    60


          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Well, anyway, obviously, my sense

is we're not going to resolve this today.    I think I can just

establish that for the record by asking the question:    Is there

consensus to adopt the proposal presented in 585-OPM-1?

          MR. ALLEN:   I need to do some more thinking about this

myself.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   So we clearly do not have

consensus to adopt; therefore, we need to come up with something

else.

          Is there anything else we can do on this today?

          I think Mark laid out two options.     A third one, it

seems to me, is whether there is a maritime wage schedule and

whether we agree or not that it should be applicable.    This

third option ought to at least be on the table for

consideration, that is my 2 cents.     I don't have any idea yet

what the answer is, but at least I'll throw it out there.

          MR. ALLEN:   We are getting ourselves educated.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Yeah.

          MR. ALLEN:   Thank you.

          CAPT HANRAHAN:   It is somewhat complex because I

recognize that the vessel is a unique situation.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Well, anything else on this now?
                                                                      61


I would like us to --

            Yes, please, go ahead.

            MS. GAILES:   I just wanted to make one last comment -

I don't want to give the impression that anything is being

blocked.    We were continuing to review, because it is a complex

issue.   We want to make sure we have as much information as

possible before we can move forward, so that is just one comment

I would like to make.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     I have a question while you folks

are here, to make sure I understand your proposal.

            I am looking at Attachment C, in OPM 585-OPM-1, where

you have the current rates.      I see the previous page, the FWS

wage schedule for Northwestern Michigan.      They're obviously all

Step 3's.

            What I just wanted to be clear on is, where exactly

are you proposing to slot people in the Detroit schedule,

Attachment D?

            MS. GAILES:   At the same Step 3 but with eligibility

for within-grade.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   So at a level equivalent to

the grade corresponding to where they're at now?

            MS. GAILES:   Correct.
                                                                      62


           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      So, for example, for Captain

Hanrahan, it looks like he's equivalent to a WS-16, $39.23, I

believe.   He would go where, just so I understand it correctly?

           MS. GAILES:    He would also go to the XH-16, Step 3,

which looks like it's about $45.31.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Okay.   So I just wanted to clarify

what the proposal is.    That's all.

           CAPT HANRAHAN:    How would I come up at Step 3 when I

have 24 years federal service?

           MS. GAILES:    Well, we were just putting you where the

actual grade was, where you are right now.       It wasn't increasing

any kind of grades.     It was giving the opportunity for --

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      At 3 or -- is that your

understanding?

           MR. ALLEN:    Yeah, the steps are scoped out on page 4

of the OPM document.

           CAPT HANRAHAN:    And I would still be less than the

captain on the BILMAIER which the Park Service agreed at the

last wage board on August 10th of 1969.

           MS. GAINES:    Right.    And one thing in terms of the

past documentation, I'm not sure that that process or -- you

know, where those people's decisions ended up.       That was years
                                                                      63


ago, so we needed to move from this point forward.

           CAPT HANRAHAN:    And since that came up, Congress has,

as I said, laid OPA-90 on us, maritime transportation security

HMR -- all of these since you agreed to match the Corps'

Floating in 1969.

           And I might add that I administrate those programs

too.   That's not in my position description.   At some point, I

will drop dead from paper.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Well, we will have to

ponder this.   Hopefully, we'll do it quicker than another 43

years.

           [Laughter.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   In fact, we will.

           Anything else on this matter?

           MR. PHELPS:   I have one question for Ms. Gaines.    She

was just saying that they were looking to move forward.    So that

makes a point on why we must make sure things are written down

and documented because 10 years from now, somebody else is going

to be at FPRAC who wasn't here at this meeting from either the

Management or the Labor side. With documentation in writing,

everyone can see where your starting point is, not disregard it,

and state that we'll just start from the present and move
                                                                     64


forward.   I mean, that's just an unfair way to look at things.

           MS. GAILES:   There was a resolution that was written

down, but there wasn't a resolution from any of the meetings

from the past.

           MR. PHELPS:   I don't know.   I haven't had a chance to

really look at it that much, but from what the Captain said, it

sounded like they had minutes from the meeting where

disagreement was made.   Am I wrong on that, or is that what it

was?

           CAPT HANRAHAN:   Yes, you will see that in the minutes.

You’ll also see the letter that was sent where they did actually

implement that on June 1st of 1969.

           I would also like maybe a date that you can put your

hands on a document that says we're going to resolve this at

some date that's reasonable instead of going on for another 14

years.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Just so you understand how we work

here, we advise the Director of OPM.     So we can't -- I suppose

we could tell you here that there's a deadline by which we will

render some verdict to the Director of OPM, but that would then

be up to --

           CAPT HANRAHAN:   That's up to --
                                                                        65


             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Yeah.   That would be our

recommendation --

             CAPT HANRAHAN:    Understood.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    -- which she could then do what

she wants with.

             CAPT HANRAHAN:    Kind of like the NTSB.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Is there a way we can set a

deadline for ourselves to develop a recommendation on this?        It

may not end up being a consensus recommendation, but I feel like

we owe --

             MR. PHELPS:    Personally, I don't see where it would

take that much time.       Mark said he wants to look at things.   I

have no problem with him taking some time to research, but it

seems fairly clear to me, even at this point, without looking at

anything else that these people have been used and abused, if

not for lack of more descriptive words, already.        And I don't

think we should take any more time than absolutely necessary to

help them.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Do you want to respond on the

schedule, Mark?

             MR. ALLEN:    I think we'll have a better idea once we

dig into this some more and come back to the next meeting.
                                                                      66


            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.    So is that adequate for now

in terms of schedule?    It means we'll have a full discussion of

a possibly revised proposal, or do we need more time than that?

I just want to clarify exactly where we stand on this.

            MR. ALLEN:   The only proposal we have at the moment is

the one from the Department of the Interior.       That's an agency

proposal coming to OPM.      There is a personal idea from Captain

Hanrahan which we're also going to consider, and there may be

other ideas that others have also.        So there's a lot to think

about.   I'm not prepared right now to say we'll have a

recommendation coming out of the Committee at the next meeting.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Well, I would like us to set some

kind of a deadline for this, whatever is reasonable.       Can we

pick one?

            MR. ALLEN:   I think I've already stated that we'll

come back to the next meeting with a better idea of where we

stand.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    All right.    I guess that's the

best we can do at the moment.     Captain Hanrahan, I really do

appreciate your coming.

            CAPT HANRAHAN:    You're welcome.    I thank all of you

for the opportunity.
                                                                    67


            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   All right.

            Well, we do have a couple other New Business items.

Please summarize them briefly for us, Mark.

            MR. ALLEN:   The Management members currently have a

proposal on the agenda on Old Business, 557-MGT-2, Lee County,

Virginia.

            We have received new commuting pattern information and

new metropolitan area definitions, and the document 586-MGT-1 is

basically this.   It's an update of the statistical information

that's possible to be updated for 557-MGT-2.

            But Management recommendation remains the same, which

is to say that Lee County is appropriately defined to the

Eastern Tennessee wage area.

            What's really driving that is it's adjacent to the

survey area for Eastern Tennessee, and it's a considerable

distance away from the survey area for the West Virginia wage

area.

            The other one, 586-MGT-2, is a similar update to 562-

MGT-2, and again, with this one, there's no change in the

Management recommendation based on a further analysis of the new

metropolitan area definitions and commuting patterns.

            This one would result in placing 11 employees on a
                                                                  68


lower wage schedule, and it's driven by our review of the MSA –

under OPM regulations it is permissible for MSAs to be split

between FWS wage areas only in very unusual circumstances.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Any questions or discussion on the

review of Lee County, Virginia?

          MR. BERNHARDT:   Yeah.   Mr. Chairman, one thing that

AFGE wants to throw out into the discussion is whether there is

a chance or the sense in the system to eliminate the Eastern

Tennessee wage area altogether.

          As you know, we have been urging review of the FWS

wage areas and make them aligned with the GS pay locality wage

areas, so we want to throw out for consideration the possibility

of eliminating the Eastern Tennessee wage area.

          I know we're not prepared to discuss that, but I want

to put that out there that that's going to be an issue AFGE

wants us to consider.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   We have in our Work Group an issue

of reviewing the whole question of minimum FWS employment levels

for wage areas, which we need to revisit and make a decision on.

          So, anyway, is there consensus to adopt the Management

proposal to retain Lee County where it is in Eastern Tennessee?

          MR. BERNHARDT:   I think at this point, I've got to
                                                                      69


withhold consensus, especially because Jacque is not here today.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   So there is not, so okay.      I

assumed that was the case.     I just wanted to --

             MR. ALLEN:   We have been holding off on this one

because of the activities in the Work Group.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   On this other one for South Bend-

Mishawaka - is there any consensus now on that one?

             MR. BERNHARDT:   I think we've got to wait on that one,

too, Mr. Chairman.    This is something that I confess I really

haven't given attention to.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.    I hope we can deal with

these two soon.    It may require more time, but that's the way it

goes.   We’ve had them on our agenda for some time now.

             So, with that, is there any other New Business that

people want to bring up?

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Is there anyone who objects to the

idea of adjourning?

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Hearing no objection, we are

adjourned.    See you all next month.     Thank you very much.
