                                                           1

         FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

                           578th FPRAC

          SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding

                Thursday, September 13, 2012

                          ROOM 5526
               Office of Personnel Management
                   Washington, D.C. 20415

ATTENDANCE:

Members/Alternates:

     Management Members:
     Mark Allen, OPM
     Seth Shulman, DoD
     Tammy Vankeuren, AF

     Labor Members:
     Bill Fenaughty, MTD
     Jacque Simon, AFGE
     Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE
     Steve Landis, ACT

Staff Specialists and Visitors:
     Jerry Mikowicz, Designated Federal Official, OPM
     Madeline Gonzalez, OPM
     Mike Eicher, OPM
     Terri Avondet, OPM
     Lindsey O’Keefe, OPM
     Valerie Cash, OPM
     Chris Medley, OPM
     Jim Brady, DoD
     Hank Rovan, DoD
     Charles Griffin, CIA
     Tanya Green, CIA
     Dennis Phelps, MTD

Recording Secretaries:     Mike Eicher and Terri Avondet


[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]
                                                               2

                       C O N T E N T S
                                                        Page

I.     Opening/Announcements
       • Introductions.....................................4
       • Announcements.....................................5
         - TRB modernization (e.g., we will be meeting on
            7th floor for the next few months; plans
            regarding transcription of meetings; et cetera)
         - Letter to Director Berry from Representative
            Louis J. Barletta on behalf of an employee at
            Tobyhanna Army Depot who writes to inquire about
            the status of the FPRAC October 2010
            recommendation to combine FWS wage areas that lie
            within GS locality pay areas, 578-OC-1
         - Congressional Research Service Report, Comparing
            Compensation for Federal and Private-Sector
            Workers: An Overview
            (http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R42636.pdf)

II.    Review of the Minutes of 577th Meeting.............9

III.   Old Business.......................................
       a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2
          - Total Employment in the Eastern Tennessee
            Wages Area by County, 566-OPM-1
          - List of FWS Wage Areas with Fewer than 500
            Employees, 566-OPM-2
          - Review of Criteria for Defining Appropriated
            Fund Wage Areas, 545-OC-1 [REPRINT]
       b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns
          - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on
            Survey Issues Work Group, 560-OC-1
       c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal
          Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1
       d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
       e. Letter from the American Federation of Government
          Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
          review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
          from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
          the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1
       f. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1
       g. Proposal for FPRAC review of the Federal Wage
          System Appropriated Fund and Nonappropriated
          Fund Operating Manuals, 575-AFGE-1
                                                              3



                   C O N T E N T S (continued)
                                                       Page

      h. Suggestion for a research paper on the history
         of the Federal Government's prevailing rate
         system
      i. Definition of Rochester, MN Metropolitan
         Statistical Area, 577-MGT-1

IV.   New Business......................................17
      a. Review of the Augusta and Portland, Maine,
         Federal Wage System Wage Area, 578-MGT-1
      b. North American Industry Classification System
         Based Federal Wage System Wage Surveys
         (2012 Update), 578-MGT-2
                                                                      4


                          P R O C E E D I N G

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Good morning, everyone, and

welcome to the578th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate

Advisory Committee.    My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chair of the

Committee, and as we usually do, why don't we go around the room

and introduce ourselves.

          Bill, let's start with you today.

          MR. FENAUGHTY:     Bill Fenaughty from Metal Trades and

NFFE.

          MS. SIMON:    Jacque Simon, American Federation of

Government Employees.

          MS. SUSZCZYK:     Sarah Suszczyk, National Association of

Government Employees.

          MR. LANDIS:    Steven Landis, Association of Civilian

Technicians.

          MR. ALLEN:    Mark Allen with OPM.

          MR. SHULMAN:     Seth Shuman, Department of Defense.

          MS. VANKEUREN:     Tammy Vankeuren, Air Force.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     And will the people around the

sides of the room also state your names and affiliations?

          MR. MIKOWICZ:     Jerry Mikowicz, OPM, Designated Federal

Official for this meeting.
                                                                      5


          MS. GONZALEZ:    Madeline Gonzalez with OPM.

          MR. MEDLEY:    Chris Medley, OPM.

          MS. O'KEEFE:    Lindsey O'Keefe, OPM.

          MR. BRADY:    Jim Brady, Department of Defense.

          MR. ROVAN:    Hank Rovan, DoD.

          MS. CASH:    Valerie Cash, Pay and Leave, OPM.

          MR. EICHER:    Mike Eicher, OPM.

          MS. AVONDET:    Terri Avondet, OPM.

          MR. GRIFFIN:    Chuck with CIA.

          MS. GREEN:    Tanya with CIA.

          MR. PHELPS:    Dennis Phelps with Metal Trades and IBEW.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   Thank you, and good morning

again.

          So we have a few announcements to start with.     Our

building, as people may or may not know, is undergoing some

much-needed modernization, and that's going to discombobulate us

for a few months, because it's proceeding floor by floor, and

the fifth floor where we always meet is next up.    It's being

done a floor at a time, and so, therefore, this room where we

always meet is not going to be available for several months.

We're not quite sure how long, two to three, I believe, and we

have to go to an alternative space.
                                                                       6


          We will notify you where we will be meeting in exile,

so to speak.

          This will also affect our transcription.      We are

practicing today a replacement method for the transcription that

we will use during our absence from this room, and we will know

whether it works after this meeting is over.    We hope it does.

          I guess we need a motion to modify our rules or

suspend them temporarily during the modernization, since our

rules require us to meet in this room technically.      This is what

I have been told.

          MS. SIMON:   All right.   I move that we --

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I'm only following orders here.

          MS. SIMON:   I move that we commit ourselves to meet

elsewhere during the renovation.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay. Second?

          MR. ALLEN:   Seconded.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   All in favor, signify, say

"aye."

          [Chorus of ayes.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Any opposed?

          [No audible response.]

          MS. SIMON:   How do you like that consensus?
                                                                     7


          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Wow!   It's excellent.

          [Laughter.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   This is a harbinger, I think, of

things to come.

          I don't know that we need anything comparable on the

transcription.    I guess we are just going to have to try to make

do, really.   We don't have any alternative, so I don't think we

need to address rule changes on that, and we hope that we will

be back here sooner rather than later.

          Okay.   We have also a letter from Representative

Barletta in Pennsylvania to Director Berry supporting -- well,

inquiring about a constituent's inquiry to him.    The constituent

is an FWS worker at Tobyhanna.

          I also asked that the link to the Congressional

Research Service report comparing Federal and private sector

compensation be circulated to you.    This is yet another study.

I'm not sure who requested it.   It compares Federal -- or

actually looks at the various studies out there, comparing

Federal and non-Federal pay.   No big surprise, we find that the

studies that use human capital methods, such as the ones from

AEI, Heritage, Congressional Budget Office, et cetera, differ

very much, one from the other, since they're all over the map,
                                                                   8


and also differ from the job-to-job comparisons that are used

not only by the Federal Government but also all the private

sector employers in the world that we know of, and which are the

basis of both the General Schedule and FWS.   So no surprise,

different methods and different data yield different results,

and basically, that's what the report lays out.

          I know we have taken yet another misleading hit today

from the Heritage Foundation on the issue of paid time off.

It's remarkable to me that they didn't address the issue of job

tenure differences, which are so different between the Federal

Government and private sector.   If you actually look at paid

time off eligibility, workers with comparable levels of tenure

working at large enterprises, they're not very different between

the private sector and the Federal Government.    End of my

pontification on that subject.

          Have people had a chance to look at the minutes from

our last meeting, the 577th?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Are there any further changes?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   If not, is there any objection to

adopting those?
                                                                       9


            [No audible response.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Hearing no objection, those

minutes are adopted.

            Under Old Business, there's one item from our last

meeting that I think we can dispose of quickly, now that we have

some better attendance today, and that is item (i), the

Definition of Rochester, Minnesota, MSA, 577-MGT-1.

            Have people now had a chance to review that?

            MR. ALLEN:   Actually, Mr. Chairman, I would note that

we have a lack of a quorum today on the Management side.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Oh, really?

            MR. ALLEN:   We only have three Management members

present.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   But Management proposed this.    So

isn’t it safe to assume Management supports this?

            MR. ALLEN:   What we have done in the past is if we

have consensus on something, we will just follow it up with one

of the absent Management members by phone and announce consensus

at the next meeting.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   I was hoping we could take

care of it today.    Then I guess the ball is in Labor's court on

this one.
                                                                        10


          MR. ALLEN:     I would note that this proposal affects no

Federal Wage System employees.       The FPRAC Management members

recommend that Wabasha County be redefined from the Southwestern

Wisconsin area of application to the Minneapolis-St. Paul area

of application.    Redefining Wabasha County to the Minneapolis-

St. Paul area of application would place the entire Rochester,

MN MSA in the Minneapolis-St. Paul wage area.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:       Okay.   So subject to polling your

absent members, we have concurrence on this one.

LABOR MEMBERS:    Yes.

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.     Any other Old Business items people

care to discuss in here?      Most of these, we've kicked to our

working group.

                  MR. LANDIS:    Actually, I have a few questions.

They are not listed on here under Old Business, but I think

they're old business for the group.

          The report that was passed in March, I think last

meeting it was said that OPM and OMB were working on the rules

and regulations for implementation of the wage area changes.

Does that mean that it's been approved by the Director, or is it

part of the process of it getting approved?

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:       My understanding -- and, Jerry,
                                                                    11


feel free to supplement, or correct me -- is that the Director

is still considering the draft of a regulation that OPM staff

prepared for his review.    Is that accurate?

          MR. MIKOWICZ:    Yes, that's correct.   And until the

Director actually transmits the proposed regulation to OMB, it's

not really approved.   So it's still under review at OPM.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.

          MR. LANDIS: But it seems like they are working in that

direction now.   They're not going to -- okay.

          Well, another thing we said last time, I guess it's

kind of been mentioned.    If it did take effect and was approved,

that that change would take effect as of, what, January 1st when

the current Federal pay freeze came to an end.     Is that -- was

that true?   Am I understanding that correctly?

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I would defer to Jerry on that one

too.

          MR. MIKOWICZ:    The regulatory process generally takes

about a year, and it can vary, but what we would need to do is

have proposed regulations and final regulations.     If the FPRAC

recommendation had been approved in the March and April time

frame, there would have been time to do a proposed regulation,

publish it, get comments, and publish the final regulation.
                                                                  12


Looking at the calendar, we're now in September, and if there

were to be -- let's say the regulation was published by the end

of this month as a proposed regulation, we have to have a

comment period generally, let's say 60 days.     Then we would have

to analyze the comments received and go through the process of

clearance again through OPM and OMB, and that includes

interagency clearance.

          So the way the Administrative Procedure Act works, we

have to go through this two-stage round before a regulation

becomes final.   It would not be possible to have final

regulations effective by January 1, 2013.

          MR. LANDIS:    Okay.

          MR. MIKOWICZ:    Technically, the pay freeze does end at

that date, but as you know, there is other legislation involved.

          MR. LANDIS:    That was going to be my next question.

          MR. MIKOWICZ:    Right.   That's anticipated.

          So there are other proposals that would extend the pay

freeze along with the Continuing Resolution, but again, those

are proposals, and we don't know actually what Congress and the

President will do.

          MR. LANDIS:    Okay.   Thank you.

          Also, then more specifically, the question about the
                                                                        13


situation of Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst.       I know there's

like 500 to 600 ACT and AFGE employees there.       On October 1st,

2009, McGuire Air Force Base and Fort Dix and Lakehurst Naval

Air Station were all combined into one base.       Obviously, we all

know that.

            All the employees were told by Congressman Adler at

the time that all Federal employees on that base would now be at

one base and would all be moved to the New York pay scale.         Is

that a true statement?      Was that what was supposed to happen, or

did that sort of not --

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     All I can speak to is how the

Federal Wage System operates, and actually, there's nothing

automatic in our current rules.       It would require some action

both by this Committee and then following up on that by the

Director.

            MR. LANDIS:    Okay.   So, at that time, none of that

stuff had happened?

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     I think what did happen -- and

again, I don't know that it was automatic either for the white

collar folks.    It did require a Federal Salary Council action.

            MS. SIMON:    We have a rule that deals with it.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Is it automatic for GS?
                                                                      14


          MR. ALLEN:    No, it is not automatic.     On behalf of the

President's Pay Agent, OPM issued regulations.       I believe we did

an interim regulation on that one that covered the GS employees,

because there was a preexisting policy in place that if a single

installation was split between two locality pay areas, then

employees would be reassigned to the higher paying locality pay

area.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     It did happen immediately for the

GS--

          MR. LANDIS:    Yes, it did.     So I guess that policy is

not for FWS employees.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     It's an obvious disparity and,

frankly, an obvious inequity.     We’re trying very belatedly to

deal with it here.   Right?

          MR. LANDIS:    Yeah.   I understand the report that was

passed in March doesn't deal specifically with that.       It deals

with that amongst, you know, obviously many other areas.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Right.

          MR. LANDIS:    But the problem is that it's been almost

3 years now, and you have not only FWS employees on one end of

the base being paid from a different wage area as FWS employees

on the other end, you have GS employees and FWS employees
                                                                       15


working in the same building, sometimes at the next desk, that

are being paid in different wage areas.         And I know it's a

serious morale problem they're having up there.         I'm just

wondering why, you know, something can't be done to rectify this

after nearly 3 years.

            I mean, some of these people have lost nearly $10,000

in pay.

            MS. SIMON:    Steve, it's a problem in New Jersey.      It's

a problem in Pennsylvania, and it's a problem in a lot of

places.    And it's something we've worked very, very hard to

rectify, but we've got some serious obstacles.

            MR. LANDIS:    Okay.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Anything else on this question or

topic?    I think this Committee has carried this issue about as

far as we can.    So we'll wait to see what's going to happen.

            MR. LANDIS:    Okay.   Thank you.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Any other Old Business items that

people want to talk about before we move on?

            [No audible response.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Our first New Business item is

578-MGT-1, the review of the Augusta and Portland, Maine, FWS

wage areas.
                                                                    16


            Mark, would you please summarize that for us?

            MR. ALLEN:   Yes, Mr. Chairman.

            We have reached a point with the Portland, Maine, wage

area now where the employment level has fallen so low that DoD

is no longer able to conduct local wage surveys in the Portland

wage area.    So the Management members of FPRAC are recommending

that the wage area be abolished.

            The closest wage area to Portland is Augusta, and

Augusta currently has 162 FWS employees.

            We are recommending in this proposal that some of the

counties in the Portland, Maine, wage area continue to be

surveyed.    One of the main reasons for that is there is a very

large private sector employer in the Portland wage area from

which we’re obtaining good wage data that could be used in the

combined Portland-Augusta wage area.

            MS. SIMON:   Why are you proposing that it go to

Augusta rather than to Portsmouth, New Hampshire?

            MR. ALLEN:   We have an FPRAC recommendation that would

result in the Portsmouth wage area being abolished.     So we are

following that principle.

            The Boston wage area would be further away than

Augusta would.    I do have one change to point out to everybody.
                                                                     17


It is on page 4.   We had originally proposed that the next full-

scale survey cycle for the Augusta wage area be May of 2013.

However, we received further information from DoD that they need

to keep the survey cycle of the even-numbered fiscal years for

Augusta because of other multiple wage surveys they have in

process that month.    So we need to make a correction on page 4

to say May 2014 instead of May 2013.    That would be the next

full-scale -- it would be the full-scale survey for Augusta, and

that would change the effective date for the Augusta wage

schedule from July 2013 to July 2014.

          MR. FENAUGHTY:    Mark, why don't you just keep it the

way it is until you decide what you are going to do with the

Portsmouth wage area?

          MR. ALLEN:    Unfortunately, there is no capability to

continue doing local wage surveys in the Portland wage area,

because the employment level there is falling too low, and

there's no centralized single large military installation or VA

Medical Center that's remaining in the Portland wage area.

          There are 66 employees in the Portland wage area.      I

think that number is probably going down, and they're scattered

all over the place.

          MR. PHELPS:    I think Bill's question may have
                                                                     18


something to note, move the abolished Portland wage area

counties to the Portsmouth area since there hasn’t been a

decision to abolish Portsmouth yet.    Portsmouth is still a

viable wage area at this point, which may be closer than

Augusta.   If it is determined to move the abolished Portland

wage area counties to Portsmouth or do away with Portsmouth and

move Portsmouth to Boston, we could always come back and revisit

and move Portland to Augusta if that's the case, but why would

you not conduct analysis to determine it?    We don't know if

Portsmouth is definitely going to be abolished or not yet.

           MR. ALLEN:   We have not included analysis for

Portsmouth in this package.     What I would suggest, if it's okay

with the other Management members, is that we apply the

regulatory criteria to the counties currently in the Portland

wage area to determine their proper definition, either Augusta

or Portsmouth.

           We will need to move fairly quickly on this one,

because there's a local wage survey that's coming up next year

for the Portland wage area, but we'll get the supplemental

analysis done and hopefully we’ll come back at the next meeting

with another set of data for us to look at.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Unless there are further questions
                                                                     19


on this one, we will just table it, if that's the right word,

until next month.

            Which brings up the proposal to update the North

American Industry Classification System, classification changes

based on OMB's 2012 update.    I counted 14 separate changes.

            MR. ALLEN:   This looks a lot more intimidating than it

really is.

            The Federal Wage System uses North American Industry

Classification codes for determining what industries should be

surveyed.    Periodically, OMB issues new codes.   They seem to be

on a 5-year cycle now.    They used to do it every 10 years when

it was the Standard Industrial Classification system.

            We are basically just playing catch-up with minor

changes in industry descriptions, and rather than go through all

of these, I'll just give you one example down at the bottom of

page 3.   The 2007 NAICS Code 334411 dealt with electron tube

manufacturing.    Electron tubes are going out of industry now.

They're still used in some products, but what the NAICS

provision did was merge that in with other electronic and

program manufacturing under NAICS Code 334419.

            What I would suggest, since this is the first time

Labor members have seen this package, is to take a look through
                                                                   20


it, and if you have any questions, we'd be happy to answer them,

but I think the changes are pretty self-explanatory.

            What we are endeavoring to do with this is basically

keep the same industries included in Federal Wage System surveys

that we have now.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   So I guess unless there's some

urgent desire to adopt this now, we can defer this one as well?

            [No audible response.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Well, any other New

Business?

            [No audible response.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   We will have a working group

meeting in about 10 minutes, although I understand it might be

somewhat sparsely attended.

            And unless there is some objection, we can adjourn.

            [No audible response.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Hearing none, we are adjourned.

Thank you all.    See you next month.
