                                                              1


         FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

                         575th FPRAC

          SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding

                  Thursday, June 21, 2012

                          Room 5526
               Office of Personnel Management
                      Washington, D.C.

ATTENDANCE:

Members/Alternates:
  Management Members
  MARK ALLEN, Office of Personnel Management
  SETH SHULMAN, Department of Defense
  DARLENE FREEMAN, Department of Air Force
  MICHAEL CHASE, Department of Veterans Affairs

  Labor Members
  DENNIS PHELPS, MTD
  STEVEN FISHER, ACT


Staff Specialists and Visitors:
  JEROME MIKOWICZ, Designated Federal Official,
    Office of Personnel Management
  MADELINE GONZALEZ, Office of Personnel Management
  TERRI AVONDET, Office of Personnel Management
  MIKE EICHER, Office of Personnel Management
  LINDSEY O'KEEFE, Office of Personnel Management
  JIM BRADY, Department of Defense
  GARY KISTNER, Department of Defense
  HANK ROVAN, Department of Defense
  STEVE LANDIS, ACT

Recording Secretary:   FEBBIE GRAY

[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]
                                                                   2


                       C O N T E N T S
                                                       Page

I.     Opening/Announcements
       • Introductions.....................................3
       • Announcements.....................................6
         - Director John Berry's responses to letters from
           Representative Jon Runyan, AFGE National
           President John Gage, and FPRAC Labor members
           who wrote in support of the 2010 AFGE proposal,
           575-OC-1
           [The incoming letters were provided to the members at
           the April 19, 2012, meeting.]
         - Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee
           Annual Summary 2011, 575-OC-2
         - May 11, 2012, memorandum to the FPRAC Chairman
           from Colonel James P. Ross at New Boston Air
           Force Station in support of the 2010 AFGE
           proposal, 575-OC-3
         - Letter from Mr. William Hanrahan, Master of the
           Ranger III, regarding the pay policy covering
           DOI's Wage Board employees at NPS's Isle Royale
           National Park, 575-OC-4
         - Letters from employees at Tobyhanna Army Depot
           in support of FPRAC recommendation to
           consolidate FWS wage areas that lie within GS
           locality pay areas, 575-OC-5
         - Electronic copy of the March 2012 FPRAC Report to
           Director Berry available on ACT's Web site,
           575-ACT-1
         - Update on draft proposed regulation to
           consolidate FWS wage areas that lie within GS
           locality pay areas

II.    Review of the Minutes of the 574th Meeting.............11

III.   Old Business.......................................11
       a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2
          - Total Employment in the Eastern Tennessee
            Wages Area by County, 566-OPM-1
          - List of FWS Wage Areas with Fewer than 500
            Employees, 566-OPM-2
          - Review of Criteria for Defining Appropriated
                                                               3


                        C O N T E N T S (continued)
                                                        Page

            Fund Wage Areas, 545-OC-1 [REPRINT]
      b.   Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns
           - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on
             Survey Issues Work Group, 561-OC-1
      c.   Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal
           Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1
      d.   Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
           Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
      e.   Letter from the American Federation of Government
           Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
           review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
           from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
           the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1

IV.   New Business.......................................12
      a. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC
         Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1
      b. Definition of Youngstown-Warren-Boardman, OH-PA
         Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-2
      c. Proposal for FPRAC review of the Federal Wage
         System Appropriated Fund and Non-appropriated
         Fund Operating Manuals, 575-AFGE-1
                                                                   4




                         P R O C E E D I N G S

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Good morning, everyone, and

welcome to this 575th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate

Advisory Committee.    My name is Sheldon Friedman, and I am the

chairman of the committee.

          As we usually do, why don't we go around the room so

that you may introduce yourselves.    Mark, would you start,

please?

          MR. ALLEN:    Mark Allen with OPM.

          MR. SHULMAN:    Seth Shulman, Department of Defense.

          MS. FREEMAN:    Darlene Freeman, Department of Air

Force.

          MR. CHASE:    Michael Chase, VA.

          MR. PHELPS:    Dennis Phelps for the Metal Trades

Department.

          MR. FISHER:    Steve Fisher, ACT.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Thank you.

          And if the folks around the sides of the room would

also introduce themselves?

          MS. GONZALEZ:    Madeline Gonzalez with OPM.

          MR. MIKOWITCZ:     Jerry Mikowicz, OPM, Designated

Federal Official.
                                                                     5




            MR. BRADY:    Jim Brady, Department of Defense.

            MR. KISTNER:   Gary Kistner, Department of Defense.

            MR. ROVAN:    Hank Rovan, Department of Defense.

            MS. O'KEEFE:   Lindsey O'Keefe, OPM.

            MS. GRAY:    Febbie Gray, OPM.

            MR. EICHER:    Mike Eicher, OPM.

            MS. AVONDET:   Terri Avondet, OPM.

            MR. LANDIS:    Steve Landis, ACT.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Thank you.

            I just want to recognize Febbie.     This is her last

meeting with us.   We will miss her.     But I understand, Febbie,

that we'll be taken care of in your absence, right?

            MS. GRAY:    Yes.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Good luck to you in your new

endeavor.

            MS. GRAY: Thank you.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Somewhere else in our building, I

think.

            MS. GRAY:    Yes.

            [Laughter.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I know we have a rather lightly

attended meeting today, but I guess let's just forge ahead.
                                                                     6




             There are a bunch of announcements on the agenda, and

you have the documents pertaining to the announcements in your

folder and should have received them electronically ahead of

time.   The first one is Director Berry's responses to several

letters, one from Representative Runyan, one from AFGE president

Gage, and the letter from the FPRAC Labor members.    All of these

letters pertain to the proposal to combine FWS wage areas that

lie inside of GS locality pay areas.    The incoming letters, I

think you have from previous meetings.

             The next item is the final Annual Summary for 2011

that we approved at our April meeting, and so you have the final

version in your folder.

             I received a memorandum from a Colonel James Ross

regarding FWS workers at the New Boston Air Force Station in New

Hampshire.    He is concerned about the pay disparity issue

between Wage Grade and General Schedule employees who work at

the same location but are paid as if they are in two different

locations.    A response to his letter is winding its way through

our system, and we'll share that once it's finally cleared.

             I also received a letter from a Mr. William Hanrahan,

who is Master of the USNPS Ranger III vessel.    I think that the

rank of Master is sort of like a Captain but I'm not sure.
                                                                     7




           MR. ALLEN:   It is. The ranks of Master and Captain are

similar.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   The vessel transports both

passengers and cargo to and from the Isle Royale National Park

in Lake Superior, and Mr. Hanrahan raises an issue concerning

the members of his crew, who are   FWS employees.   Madeline is

researching that issue.   Presumably, it will wind its way to us

at some point.

           MR. ALLEN:   Mr. Chairman, it's possible that this may

not actually be an issue for the committee's attention.

           The Department of the Interior Headquarters staff is

currently working with the National Park Service staff to figure

out what the best pay approach is for the crew of the vessel.

           The current pay system approach for the vessel is that

it's a set-aside wage schedule.    It's not been part of the

Federal Wage System since the Federal Wage System was created,

but the set-aside wage schedule was allowed to continue, and the

rates on the wage schedule are making it difficult to recruit

and retain sufficient personnel to staff the vessel in a manner

that Master Hanrahan believes is safe.   So we will keep the

Committee informed about what's going on with this, but it's

possible that it might be resolved without OPM's or the
                                                                     8




Committee’s need for further involvement.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Please let me know the end

result of this issue, since Master Hanrahan contacted me for

help.

           Next item, under 575-OC-5, we got a large batch of

letters from FWS workers at Tobyhanna, I think in the vicinity

of 400 letters.   We are working out the logistics of how to

share those with the members of the Committee.    It appears that

the easiest and best way to do that is to scan them and put them

on a CD.   We thought we'd have them by today, but it looks like

it will be our next meeting, perhaps, before we will be able to

share them.

           Continuing on to the next item, under 575-ACT-1, the

folks at ACT have beaten Amazon.com to the punch and put our

working group report on their Web page, so we have that to

report.

           Terry Garnett sent us a letter with the link, which I

have shared with you, if anybody is interested in an electronic

copy of that working group report.

           Now, I would like to call on Jerry to see if there is

any update on the draft proposed regulation to consolidate FWS

wage areas.
                                                                     9




           MR. MIKOWICZ:    I would like to report that the

proposed regulations have cleared through the OPM program

offices that ordinarily clear regulations, and they now reside

with the Director of OPM.

           I had an occasion to speak with the Director Tuesday

afternoon along with his Deputy Chief of Staff, Justin Johnson,

and they acknowledged and confirmed that the proposed

regulations are in fact with the Office of the Director and had

no further comment.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Thank you.

           I guess just two other quick announcements, while I've

got this captive audience.    The Government Accountability Office

is working on a report on Federal pay comparability, which I

believe will be released to the public very soon, if it hasn't

already.   It may be of some interest to this audience.

           MR. MIKOWICZ:    It has not yet been released, but --

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   It is anticipated soon.

           And so people will probably hear about it when it

comes out, but I just want to give folks a heads-up.      It is

something that was requested by Representative Issa, I believe,

last March or thereabouts.

           And I just want to report briefly that I attended,
                                                                    10




just in the audience, an event that was sponsored by the

Partnership for Public Service on June 13th, a Federal pay

debate, which featured several of the folks who have done pay

comparability studies, Federal, non-Federal, this fellow Andrew

Biggs from American Enterprise Institute, somebody representing

the CBO, and also Rex Facer, a member of the Federal Salary

Council.

           And I felt badly for Rex.    I thought he did a pretty

good job in actual fact, but I think his remarks were rather

badly distorted in the Federal Times.

           It was an interesting session, and people who want to

learn more about this whole sort of debate and controversy might

be interested in taking a look at the Web link or I believe they

videotaped the event.

           There was not much of an opportunity to rebut the

positions of the AEI fellow or even respond adequately to the

CBO, but it was an interesting event.    People might find it of

some use to take a look at that.

           So, anyway, enough of that.   That brings us up to the

minutes of our April meeting.   Have people had a chance to

review them, and are there any further corrections or changes?

           [No audible response.]
                                                                    11




           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Unless there's some

objection, we will adopt those minutes.

           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Hearing none, the minutes are

adopted.

           That brings up old business items, of which we have

five.

           I believe we had decided that all these items would be

discussed in the working group, unless there's some comments

here that people want to make about any of them.    It might also

be useful to have guidance about priority, the order in which we

address them in the working group, if anyone has thoughts about

that, and if not, we will just move on to new business.

           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Under new business, we have

two issues, both of which involve the regulation that MSAs

should not be split between Federal Wage System wage areas

except   in very unusual circumstances.   If we can address them

by consensus in here, that is great.    If not, my suggestion

would be to refer them to the working group, because there's a

similar issue already there, and the general question of what to

do about this long-standing regulation is something that is on
                                                                       12




the table in the working group.

            So if I could ask Mark to first summarize for us Item

A. under New Business, Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton,

North Carolina, MSA 575-MGT-1.

            MR. ALLEN:    Okay.   I would agree that it might not be

necessary or advisable to move forward on these two new agenda

items at the Committee meeting today, since we already are going

to be considering the usefulness of the regulatory criterion for

MSAs as they apply to areas of application, but if everybody

wants to move forward with these today at this Committee, that's

fine.    But I would also note we don't have a quorum.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    So we couldn’t actually adopt

these?

            MR. ALLEN:    No.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Is that under our rules?

            MR. FISHER:   We don't have enough labor here, I think.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    So in view of that --

            MR. ALLEN:    I can introduce them, anyways, just

quickly.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Well, okay.

            MR. ALLEN:    It's just a matter of reading.

            [Laughter.]
                                                                     13




           MR. ALLEN:    I try not to be pedantic.

           Under 575-MGT-1, the Management members recommend that

Alexander and Catawba Counties be redefined to the Asheville

wage area’s area of application.

           Alexander, Burke, Caldwell, and Catawba Counties,

North Carolina, comprise the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, North

Carolina, MSA, and that MSA is currently split between

Asheville, North Carolina, and Charlotte, North Carolina, wage

areas.   Under OPM's regulatory criterion, unless there's some

exceptional reason for having the MSA split, all the counties

should be combined under one wage area.

           Under 575-MGT-2, we have a Management recommendation

to move Mercer County to the Cleveland wage area’s area of

application. Trumbull and Mahoning Counties, Ohio, and Mercer

County, Pennsylvania, comprise the Youngstown-Warren-Boardman,

Ohio-Pennsylvania MSA.    The Youngstown-Warren-Boardman, Ohio-

Pennsylvania MSA is split between the Cleveland, OH, and

Pittsburgh, PA, wage areas.     And again, as with the previous

case, that entire MSA under OPM's regulatory criterion currently

should be combined under just one wage area.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Well, I guess we will just

defer any further action on those, since we don't really have a
                                                                     14




quorum.

             The other new business item is something that AFGE has

proposed, which is to review the Federal Wage System

Appropriated and Nonappropriated Fund Operating Manuals, which I

think is an interesting and in many ways good idea, but since

the AFGE members are not here, we probably ought to just kick

that can down the road too.

             MR. ALLEN:   I had a brief conversation with Jacque a

couple of weeks ago about some questions that she received that

were not covered in the Appropriated Fund Operating Manual or

were insufficiently covered, but I haven't heard what the exact

proposals would be for adding something to the Operating Manuals

or whether it might be more appropriate to add something to

regulation.    Regulation tends to be more permanent, because of

the Administrative Procedures Act public comment period.

             So once we do have something before us, you can take a

look at it and see what the appropriate way of handling would

be, with the Committee's advice.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   So we will address that

next time.

             Unless there is any further -- yes, sir?

             MR. SHULMAN:   I just wanted to make note of a new
                                                                      15




member of the wage staff, appropriated fund side.      Mr. Gary

Kistner, who introduced himself up front, has taken over for

Karl Fendt in his analyst role.   He was on the NAF side of the

house until a couple weeks ago.

          MR. ALLEN:    Another turncoat.

          [Laughter.]

          MR. KISTNER:    Good morning, everyone.

          MR. SHULMAN:    This is his first and certainly not his

last FPRAC meeting, so I want everyone to know who he is.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Welcome.     Thank you for joining

us.

          MR. KISTNER:    Thank you.

          MR. CHASE:    This is my first meeting as well.    Ann

Marie Hannon was the VA representative.      She had an advancement

opportunity at the Department of Homeland Security, which she

took advantage of, and she started there this week.      So I'll be

representing VA from here.   I am the Human Resources Management

Policy and Planning person for Veterans Affairs.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    And welcome to you as well.       Thank

you for joining us.    We appreciate that.

          Well, unless there's some objection -- well, is there

any other new business?   Are there any other items people want
                                                                      16




to bring up?    If not, we can begin our working group meeting in

10 minutes in the Small Pendleton Room.        Is there a motion to

adjourn?

             MR. PHELPS:    Motion to adjourn.

             MR. SHULMAN:   Motion seconded.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Hearing no objection, we are

adjourned.

             [Whereupon, the 575th FPRAC meeting was adjourned.]

                                   •-•-•
