                                                                 1

              FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

                             598th FPRAC

               SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding

                      Thursday, October 16, 2014

                               Room 5526
                    Office of Personnel Management
                        Washington, D.C. 20415



ATTENDANCE:

Members/Alternates:

     Management Members:
     Mark Allen, OPM
     David Pedersen, Navy
     Gary Buck, Army (via phone)
     Arleen Romba, VA (via phone)

     Labor Members:
     Bill Fenaughty, MTD
     Jacque Simon, AFGE
     Candace Archer, AFGE
     Robert Shore, NAGE
     Steven Landis, ACT

Staff Specialists and Visitors:
     Jeanne Jacobson, Designated Federal Officer, OPM
     Madeline Gonzalez, OPM
     Jim Brady, DoD
     Karen Kurian, DoD
     Ashley Foy, DoD
     Luis Lynch, Air Force
     Lamar Elliott, ACT

Recording Secretaries:
     Mike Eicher, OPM
     Terri Wallace, OPM

   [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]
                                                                2

                          C O N T E N T S
                                                         Page
I.     Opening/Announcements
       • Introductions.....................................3
       • Announcements.....................................7
         - Letter to the FPRAC Chair from Senator Sherrod
           Brown regarding wage survey concerns of AAFES
           truck drivers in the Greene-Montgomery, OH
           NAF FWS wage area, 598-OC-1
         - Memorandum for the record on the status of the
           pay policy recommendation at Isle Royale National
           Park, 598-OC-2

II.    Review of the Minutes of 597th Meeting..............7

III.   Old Business.......................................18
       a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2
          - 2013 Update to Review of Lee County, Virginia,
            586-MGT-1
       b. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
          - 2013 Update to Definition of South Bend-
            Mishawaka, IN-MI Metropolitan Statistical
            Area, 586-MGT-2
       c. Letter from the American Federation of Government
          Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
          review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
          from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
          the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1
       d. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1
          - 2013 Update to Definition of
            Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC Metropolitan
            Statistical Area, 588-MGT-1
       e. Letter from the American Federation of Government
          Employees, dated August 18, 2014, requesting FPRAC
          Reexamine the definition of Grenada and Yalobusha
          Counties, MS, 597-AFGE-1

IV.      New Business.....................................13
         a. Definition of Brunswick, GA Metropolitan
            Statistical Area and Pierce County, GA,
            598-MGT-1
         b. Definition of Charlottesville, VA Metropolitan
            Statistical Area, 598-MGT-2
                                                                         3


                             P R O C E E D I N G

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Good morning, everybody.    Welcome

to this, our 598th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate

Advisory Committee.       My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chairman of

the Committee.    Why don't we, as usual, go around the room and

introduce ourselves. Let's start with you today, Bill.

             MR. FENAUGHTY:    Bill Fenaughty, MTD and NFFE.

             MS. ARCHER:    Candace Archer, AFGE.

             MS. SIMON:    Jacque Simon, AFGE.

             MR. ALLEN:    Mark Allen with OPM.

             MR. PEDERSEN:    David Pedersen, Navy.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    And we have a couple of members on

the phone.    Could you please introduce yourselves for the

recorder?

             MS. ROMBA:    Good morning.   This is Arlene Romba, VA.

             MR. BUCK:    Gary Buck, Army.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Ah, good timing.   We have a couple

more members who just joined us in person for the meeting.

Steve, if you guys could introduce yourselves for the recorder,

please.

             MR. LANDIS:    Steve Landis, Association of Civilian

Technicians.
                                                                       4


           MR. SHORE:    Robert Shore with NAGE.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   And now we're going to go

around the sides of the room so that staff and others can

introduce themselves, please.

           MR. LYNCH:    Luis Lynch, Air Force.

           MR. BRADY:    Jim Brady, DoD.

           MS. KURIAN:    Karen Kurian, DoD.

           MS. FOY:   Ashley Foy, DoD.

           MS. JACOBSON:    Jeanne Jacobson, OPM, Designated

Federal Officer.

           MR. EICHER:    Mike Eicher, OPM.

           MS. GONZALEZ:    Madeline Gonzalez, OPM.

           MS. WALLACE:    Terri Wallace, OPM.

           MR. ELLIOTT:    Lamar Elliott, Association of Civilian

Technicians.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay, thank you.   There's going to

be an earthquake drill in about 10 or 15 minutes.      We can stay

here and attempt to continue our business.       I just want to warn

people to not be too startled by the loud noise when the drill

happens.

           So, obviously, since we are meeting in this room again

today, the new recording equipment has not been installed in the
                                                                    5


Director's Executive Conference Room yet.     There was a meeting

yesterday on progress about that.    Mike or Madeline, will you

give people a brief update about when we might be back in our

normal quarters?

          MR. EICHER:   I can do that, Mr. Chairman.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Thank you.

          MR. EICHER:   OPM staff are still discussing details

with the recorder installation company.     We were informed that

the Savin brand of equipment will be installed.     However, the

purchase has not been finalized.    There will reportedly be 20

wireless microphones, one per seat, the same recording

capability that FPRAC currently uses with the USB, and

hopefully, the new machinery will be even better than what we

used previously to record meetings.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I guess I was mainly wondering

when the installation will occur.    Do we know when?

          MR. EICHER:   No, sir.   We do not.

          [Laughter.]

          MR. EICHER:   Sometime before the Thanksgiving holiday

was floated around as a possible date, but we do not have a

definitive date.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay, thank you, Mike.
                                                                     6


          MR. ALLEN:   It is my understanding that the contract

hasn't been finalized yet.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   So, next month, we'll

probably have to have the FPRAC meeting in this room again.

          Under announcements on the agenda, under document 598-

OC-1, I circulated the letter that I got from Senator Brown of

Ohio regarding the situation with the AAFES truck drivers in the

Greene-Montgomery, Ohio, nonappropriated fund wage area.    This

issue first came to our Committee’s attention in 2010.    We have

a response in the works but not yet out the door.    I just wanted

to make people aware of the incoming letter.

          Also under announcements, under 598-OC-2, there is an

update on the status of the pay policy at Isle Royale National

Park.

          Unless there are some questions on that, we can move

on.

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   That brings up the review of the

minutes of our last meeting in August.    Is there any objection

to adopting the transcript of our August meeting?

          Did you want to say something, Jacque?

          MS. SIMON:   Yes.   We were under the impression that we
                                                                      7


had sent a letter for consideration having to do with the Bakken

Region of North Dakota.    It is not listed on the agenda.   Did

you not receive that letter?

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I have not seen it.

           Madeline?

           MS. GONZALEZ:   No, we have not received it.

           MS. SIMON:   Okay.   Well, it's an issue we want to talk

about.   We'll resend the letter.    I don't know how it got lost

in the shuffle, but maybe it was on our end.     But we've

certainly prepared a letter.

           You may know that Director Archuleta went to Minot Air

Force Base and had a sort of town hall about the issues of

inadequate pay in that region among federal employees, both blue

collar and white collar, and she certainly raised people's hopes

and expectations of immediate pay increases, particularly for

the blue collar employees.      And we wanted to hear the status of

that promise.

           I think there was supposed to be an across-the-board

pay increase implemented.    I think the word that was used was

"immediately," and this was a couple of weeks ago, so . . .

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I'm sorry.   I have no information

about that.
                                                                      8


           MS. SIMON:   Okay.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Mark, do you have anything?

           MR. ALLEN:   No.    OPM hasn't received a letter from

AFGE about that particular subject, but we are aware of the

concerns among employees and management officials in the local

area.   OPM has been advising agencies for some time that they

should use pay flexibilities in the area, and we are also open

to receiving any special rate request that agencies may develop.

We just haven't received any yet.      I know there are some in the

works, but --

           MS. SIMON:   From DoD?

           MR. ALLEN:   Yes.    DOD is the lead agency for the

Federal Wage System, so the special rates would have to go

through DoD.

           MS. SIMON:   But OPM has not received anything yet?

           MR. ALLEN:   No, not yet.

           MS. SIMON:   Okay.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Do you know anything about this

one, Jim, that you're able to share with us?

           MR. BRADY:   Yes.    We are currently aware of some

requests that are expected to be forwarded soon.

           MS. SIMON:   Is soon like a month?    A week?   A day?
                                                                       9


          MR. BRADY:   I don't know.   We just received --

          MS. SIMON:   It's not coming out of your office.   Is

that what you're saying?

          MR. BRADY:   Eventually, the requests will come to my

office, and then they will be evaluated.

          MS. SIMON:   So your office doesn't even have them.     Is

that what you're saying?

          MR. BRADY:   We're currently working requests that are

in the works, yes.

          MS. SIMON:   Working requests that are in the works,

but you don't -- I'm just trying to understand the timeline.

          MR. BRADY:   I don't have a time table for you.

          MS. SIMON:   Are we talking --

          MR. BRADY:   You're asking me for a time table.

          MS. SIMON:   Are we talking months?

          MR. BRADY:   I would think not, no.

          MS. SIMON:   Shorter period of time than months?

          MR. BRADY:   I think it would be soon.

          MS. SIMON:   Okay.   I'm just trying to define "soon."

Is "soon" --

          MR. BRADY:   I don't have a time table.

          MS. SIMON:   I hear that you don't have a time table.
                                                                        10


I just want to understand "months."        "Months" is not 6 months?

It could be like 3 months, 2 months?

            MR. BRADY:    I think it will be sooner.

            MS. SIMON:    Sooner than 2 months?

            MR. BRADY:    Yes.

            MS. SIMON:    Okay.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     All right.   Anything else on this

topic?    We will wait for AFGE's letter or their submission on

this topic.

            MS. SIMON:    We definitely wrote a letter to Director

Archuleta with reference to blue collar pay.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Okay.

            MS. SIMON:    And I think there was a separate letter

sent to you with a request that it be placed on the FPRAC

agenda.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     It could be somewhere in holding.

Maybe it's being screened for Anthrax.

            MS. SIMON:    Maybe.

            [Laughter.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Okay, concerning the transcript of

the last meeting.    Is there any objection to adopting the

transcript of the last meeting held in August?
                                                                     11


          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Hearing no objection, the

transcript is adopted.

          If people will indulge me, I wonder if we could skip

down to New Business and come back to Old Business.

          MS. SIMON:   Okay.   Because I want to talk about an

item under Old Business.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Absolutely.    I do, too.

          MS. SIMON:   Okay.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    But I thought the New Business

might be quick.   Maybe I'm wrong about that, but I think it

might be quick.

          Okay.   So that brings up item (a) under New Business,

Definition of Brunswick, Georgia, MSA and Pierce County,

Georgia, 598-MGT-1.

          Mark, could you summarize that for us?

          MR. ALLEN:   Yes, Mr. Chairman.     Under 598-MGT-1, the

Management members have a recommendation for FPRAC to consider

for the Brunswick, Georgia, Metropolitan Statistical Area and

Pierce County, Georgia.

          The Brunswick, Georgia, MSA is currently split between

the Jacksonville, FL, and Savannah, GA, wage areas.      The
                                                                    12


Management members are recommending that Brantley and Glynn

Counties be redefined to the Savannah area of application.

          Because the redefinition of those two Metropolitan

Statistical Area counties would result in Pierce County being

split off from the Jacksonville wage area, we also recommend

that Pierce County be redefined to the Savannah wage area.

          This change, if implemented, would affect 45 Federal

Wage System employees, most of whom are with the Department of

Homeland Security in Glynn County.    I think there's a Law

Enforcement Officer Training Center there in Glynco, Georgia,

and there's further information here in the packet.    The wage

rates in the Savannah wage area are higher than they are in the

Jacksonville wage area, so the employees who would be affected

by this recommended change would experience an increase in pay.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any questions or discussion?

          MR. BUCK:    What installation do the two Department of

Air Force employees work at?

          MR. ALLEN:    I don't have information on that.   They

are represented by ACT, so I would have to assume they're Air

Force National Guard.

          MR. BUCK:    Okay.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Do you know, Steve?
                                                                     13


          MR. LANDIS:    I could find out, but I don't know right

off the top of my head.

          MR. BUCK:    I was just curious.   I know there is a

naval submarine base near Kings Bay, somewhere towards that

area, but I didn't know where the Air Force employees would be

at.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any other questions or discussion?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    If not, is there a consensus to

adopt this proposal?

          ATTENDEES:    Yes.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   So it appears we have

adopted 598-MGT-1 by consensus.    Thank you.

          And that brings up 598-MGT-2, Definition of

Charlottesville, Virginia MSA.

          Mark, could you please summarize that one for us.

          MR. ALLEN:    Okay.   This is 598-MGT-2, similar in some

respects to 598-MGT-1.

          The Management members have taken a look at the

Charlottesville, Virginia, Metropolitan Statistical Area, and we

found that it's currently split between three different wage

areas, and we recommend that that no longer be the case.
                                                                     14


           We are recommending that Greene County, Virginia, be

redefined from the Hagerstown-Martinsburg-Chambersburg wage area

to the Richmond wage area, and that Nelson County, Virginia, be

redefined from the Roanoke wage area to the Richmond wage area.

That would place the entire MSA in the Richmond wage area.

           This would impact three Department of the Interior

employees in Greene County.     They are represented by NFFE, and

at the grade levels that the employees are working at, all three

would receive higher wage rates once moved to the Richmond wage

schedule

           MS. SIMON:   What prompted the examination of this

analysis that led to your recommendation?

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Isn't it just a change in MSA

definition?

           MR. ALLEN:   Yes.

           MS. SIMON:   Okay.

           MR. ALLEN:   It has to do with the growth of the

Charlottesville area in terms of the metropolitan area being

expanded outwards, most likely due to commuting into

Charlottesville.

           MS. SIMON:   Okay.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any other questions or discussion
                                                                         15


about this one?

            [No audible response.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Is there a consensus to adopt it?

            MS. SIMON:   Yes.

            MR. FENAUGHTY:   Yes.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    All right.     So it appears we have

consensus to adopt 598-MGT-2.       Thank you.

            Is there any other New Business item before we go back

to Old Business?

            [No audible response.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    So now we're back to Old Business.

Jacque, did you want to address one of the items?

            MS. SIMON:   Yeah.   Item (c), Letter from AFGE dated

June 6th, 2011, requesting FPRAC review a proposal to redefine

Monroe County, PA, from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA, wage area

to New York, NY, wage area.

            You know, this is getting to be a really pathetic, sad

situation with delays.     The excuses just pile up and pile up for

inaction.    There was never any validity to the excuse that this

couldn't be done because of the pay freeze because it somehow

violated the spirit of the pay freeze, as if that was a spirit

worth upholding.
                                                                     16


            Now we got over the pay freeze.   We're in the second

consecutive year of pay adjustments with locality pay held

constant, so no increases in locality pay.

            These workers have been used and abused to a

tremendous degree.    They had unpaid furloughs.   They have been

promised this change, which reflects commuting patterns, which

is the change that has been implemented for the white collar

work force there, and there they languish with these Scranton

wage area wages when they ought to be in the New York wage area.

            It sits on -- now it's the second OPM Director's desk

that it sits on, with no action by the administration.     I don't

even want to ask anybody from Management to provide some kind of

a rationale because it can't be done with any kind of dignity or

honesty or integrity.

            This is an issue that should be a terrible

embarrassment to anybody who is aware of it and has been

involved in it.

            The people in Tobyhanna Army Depot in Monroe County,

Pennsylvania, just continue to wait for action from this

Director.    They waited for action from the previous Director,

and I'm just raising it again because silence is acquiescence,

and we're not acquiescing to this.    This change needs to be
                                                                     17


made, and it needed to be made years ago.    And it's outrageous

that it continues, and it just sits there under Old Business as

if in polite company, you don't mention it.    Well, the polite

business is over, and we need action on this item.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Are you proposing that this be

brought up for a separate vote today, or did you just want to

make that statement for the record?

           MS. SIMON:   I don't think we have a quorum for a vote,

do we?   Are we letting people vote on the phone?

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   We have a quorum.   There are four

Management members, including the two members on the phone.

           MS. SIMON:   Well, I don't think there's any point in

having a vote on this.    We have a vote on solving this issue for

all the areas where there is a difference between the

identification of the location for the salaried and hourly

federal workforce.

           We have an ongoing inequity.   It does not affect only

Tobyhanna.   It affects numerous places throughout the country,

including another area that has gotten a lot of attention, which

is the Joint Base McGuire in New Jersey.

           It's outrageous that it continues unaddressed.    I

think we don't need to have another vote.    We voted.   I think
                                                                     18


the regulations are written.    They can't say, "Oh, dear, we need

a few years to write regulations."    The regulations are written.

It's ready to go, and it needs to go.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Any other discussion on this issue

at this time?   Anybody else?   Steve?

           MR. LANDIS:   I just have a couple things to add to

that.   We've been waiting now for a couple of years for the

overall report to get done.     We actually spoke a few months ago

with the Director, and she assured us that it was still

something that they were looking to do, but it was concerns with

the budget.

           I mean, would anyone recommend that we possibly look

at some of the more egregious ones, like, for example, the Joint

Base and Tobyhanna, things that were supposed to have been done

that got overlooked, and then wait for the overall report to

come later to fix the rest?

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   You mean have FPRAC recommend to

the Director that pending possible implementation of the entire

recommendation, that she consider selective implementation in

certain areas of the country where it applies?

           MR. LANDIS:   Yeah, exactly.   That's exactly what I'm

suggesting.
                                                                      19


           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I guess it's certainly within

FPRAC's purview to make that recommendation to the Director.      If

anybody wants to formulate a proposal along those lines, it

seems like that's a question for the Labor members to decide

upon.

           I don't know.    I mean, just speaking based on what

little I know of where this sits, I'm not sure that would

advance any implementation anywhere.     It might.   I'm not saying

it wouldn't, but I don't have any reason to think it would,

frankly.

           MR. ALLEN:    If I remember correctly, Mr. Chairman,

when we were discussing this issue about the AFGE proposal for

using GS locality pay areas to define Federal Wage System wage

areas, at some point the Management members did recommend that

in each instance where there were complaints from employees

about disparate treatment between GS employees and FWS

employees, those cases be looked at individually rather than

taking a blanket approach where the regulation should be changed

to just use GS locality pay areas.     Rhode Island, for instance,

could be considered a different type of area than Monroe County

and the Joint Base.     They're all a little bit different in

scope, and we had recommended that we take a look at these areas
                                                                      20


as individual cases.   Another example is combining the

Washington, DC, wage area with the Baltimore wage area.      Those

examples are all different in scope, and we thought at the time

that it would be a good idea to take a look at those areas

individually to see if we could change the way that we were

doing things, short of adopting the GS locality pay area.

          MS. SIMON:   Well, Mark, I have to --

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I just have a question.

          MS. SIMON:   Okay.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Is there a Management proposal

likely to be forthcoming along those lines for certain specific

areas?

          MR. ALLEN:   No.   We had no Management proposal.    We

had a counter recommendation back when we were discussing this

broader proposal that did come out of the Committee.      So we

don't have a recommendation to do something that would run

counter to what's already an established FPRAC recommendation to

the Director of OPM.

          MS. SIMON:   I wouldn't characterize the proposal as

adopting the GS localities in place of FWS wage areas.      I would

characterize it as limiting non-RUS GS localities to no more

than one FWS wage area, which is a very different thing from
                                                                    21


wholesale replacement of wage areas with GS localities.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any more discussion on this topic?

          MR. ALLEN:    I would say I would certainly be open to

considering taking a look at the Joint Base issue separately

from combining Washington, D.C., and Baltimore or moving the

Narragansett Bay wage area into the Boston wage area.    I think

these things to me all along have been too different really to

lump then together in one big proposal that is very expensive to

implement and would have negative impacts on employees where

they're probably not intended.    The Joint Base issue is one that

could be studied separately because that one is kind of unique.

          MS. SIMON:    Well, it's getting cheaper and cheaper.

Tobyhanna, for one, has lost a substantial amount of its

workforce, and with the stagnation in pay over the last 5 years,

all our previous projections about the cost turned out to have

been inflated because no one foresaw just how vicious these pay

freezes would be and how relentless year after year after year.

So it's actually much less expensive than we once imagined, and

it wasn't even expensive when we first imagined it.

          So cost is not really an issue.    Cost never should

have been an issue.    Cost is not an issue when we change

localities for GS.    Cost is not an issue when we make this kind
                                                                    22


of changes or consider these changes at FPRAC.     Cost is not in

our regulation as a factor that we're supposed to consider when

we make these recommendations on boundaries.     So cost can't be

the primary thing.

          God knows the administration has cited their fear of

spending any money on federal employees as a rationale for doing

nothing, but that's political, and that's separate from what

we're supposed to be focused on in this room.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Anything else on this issue?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Is there any other Old Business

item people want to address this morning?     I have a suggestion I

want to make about some of the Old Business, but do you see any

--

          MS. SIMON:   Well, do we want to talk about (e)?      Do we

want to talk about the locks and dams?

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     We certainly could.   Go for it.

What would you like to say?

          MS. SIMON:   Well --

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     I should note that we do have an

item in the working group that relates to this one indirectly.

          MS. SIMON:   All right.    Then let's let it make its way
                                                                    23


through the working group.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Well, we don't actually have the

full issue before the working group.     But we could wait till the

pertinent piece makes its way up from the working group, if you

want to do that.

          MR. ALLEN:    It's my understanding, Mr. Chairman, that

we were waiting for the Army Corps of Engineers to provide

somebody to talk to us to give us their views of how employees

at those four lake projects are actually working, the degree to

which they move from one dam to another during the course of

their regular work cycle.

          MS. ARCHER:    So what's the status of that?

          MR. ALLEN:    I would have to defer to Army.   I don't

know if anybody has followed up with the Army Corps of Engineers

yet.

          Madeline, do you know?

          MS. GONZALEZ:    No.   We have a package going through

OPM clearance, a package that includes OPM's analysis to address

this issue, and I thought we would wait until that package was

introduced before someone from the Army Corps of Engineers comes

to a meeting.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     And that's the package that will
                                                                    24


look at the application of the regulatory criteria to the two

counties in question?

          MS. GONZALEZ:   Right.   We are taking the old package

and updating it with new data.

          MR. ALLEN:    I think we're not ready on the Management

side to talk about the issue at this meeting, but we could be at

the next meeting.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   One thing that I think would move

the ball down the field is to have an idea of the questions we'd

like answered by the Army Corps of Engineers.    I mean, if people

can think through what those questions are, I think it would be

a much more productive conversation with them if we know what we

want to ask them before we set up a meeting.

          MS. ARCHER:   And I guess our concern is that we don't

want to wait for the package and then have to wait to get the

Army Corps of Engineers folks scheduled to be here to give us

information.   So is there a way that we can do both at the same

time?

          So while the package is being put together, that we

can also be looking into how these workers actually work in this

area and get someone from the Army Corps of Engineers to be able

to address this or speak to us, and I presume, Gary, you're the
                                                                    25


person who might be more able to give us some information on

that?

          MR. BUCK:    I went to the point of contact I have at

the Washington, DC, Headquarters for the Corps of Engineers, and

basically, they deal with travel and transportation, not

prevailing wage, and they suggested to go back with the original

packet and contact the district that it originated from.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.

          MR. BUCK:    So does the Committee have an audit trail

as to who originally this package came from?

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Well, it was a Member of the House

of Representatives from Mississippi who I believe contacted

AFGE.

          MS. SIMON:    Bennie Thompson.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Yeah, Bennie Thompson.

          MR. BUCK:    Right.   But there should be a district down

there, a Corps of Engineers district.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Right.   And I think that's cited

in the letter from AFGE.

          And I think it was actually Seth at the last meeting

who offered to contact the Army Corps of Engineers person.

          MR. BUCK:    Seth is not there today?
                                                                       26


          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      No, he's not.

          MR. BUCK:    Okay.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Candace raises the question of

when we expect to meet with the Army Corps of Engineers.       I have

no idea, but I think it might help expedite that if we know

exactly what we want to ask them and have it in writing.

          MS. ARCHER:    Well, okay.     I was going to say I think

it's along the lines of what do these jobs look like and how

much interchange is there between the individuals.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Right.

          MR. ALLEN:    Yes.   That's pretty --

          MS. ARCHER:    I think it's pretty straightforward.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Yes.   So I think if we could just

get that in writing, it certainly won't hurt, and it might help

speed up the process.

          MS. ARCHER:    Okay.

          MR. ALLEN:    Gary, I think you were asking if we had a

point of contact where the initial proposal originated --

          MR. BUCK:    Correct.

          MR. ALLEN:    -- from the district level.     That is not

how this came about.    The proposal came about as a result of the

employees at the dams wanting to be defined to the Memphis wage
                                                                     27


area, and this has been something that FPRAC has from time to

time considered over probably the last 40 years.

            MR. BUCK:    Forty years?

            MR. ALLEN:    Yes.   It keeps coming up.

            MR. BUCK:    Four-zero?

            [Laughter.]

            MR. ALLEN:    We keep moving one lake at a time into the

Memphis wage area.      I think there are two lakes that are still

in the Northern Mississippi wage area.

            Basically, what we need to know from management at the

Army Corps of Engineers district for the four lakes in Northern

Mississippi, is the degree to which their wage grade employees

work at more than one of those lakes during the course of their

normal business, because we have received information over the

years that they are asked to work routinely in both wage areas,

and they don't believe that that's acceptable, that it’s not an

acceptable wage practice to be working side by side with

somebody else and earning different pay.

            MS. ARCHER:    And that's the information we've

received.    It is that their people are detailed for sometimes

weeks at a time to a different wage area doing --

            MR. BUCK:    Are they TDY?   Are they on a TDY status?
                                                                     28


Are they being rotated in and out?

          MR. ALLEN:    No.   The last we heard was that they have

one central project management office that is situated at one of

the dam projects, and they all are required to work -- they

don't report on a daily basis to that site, but they are all

working out of instructions that come from that site, which is

in the Memphis wage area.     And the two lakes that are not in the

Memphis wage area have employees who work under the Northern

Mississippi wage schedule.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   Anything else on this one

right now?

          MS. ARCHER:    We can prepare a written --

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I think that would be helpful.

          MS. ARCHER:    -- request to try and move this along,

and if we can get the analysis for the next meeting, that would

be great, too, the report.

          MR. BUCK:    This is Gary.    I suggest that you go with a

formal request that basically they're going to have to reply or

they're going to have to prepare something, and that you request

that there be some sort of representative from the location

where the rubber meets the road.

          MS. SIMON:    You mean from Mississippi?
                                                                    29


          MR. BUCK:    From the district that this all affects.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I think that's a good idea.

Sounds good to me.    Okay.

          Anything else on this item?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any other item of Old Business?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    As Bill has brought up a few

times, some of these items on our agenda have been here for a

long time and we don't have consensus on them.    Some of the

items affect very few and in some cases, no people.

          And I was checking my Robert's Rules of Order, and one

thing we could do, if people want to, is to postpone some of

these items indefinitely and get them off the agenda.

          So I was thinking in particular of (b) and (d),

possibly (a), but at least (b) and (d).    Unless people now have

consensus about them or unless people wanted to bring them up

for a vote, then we could postpone them indefinitely, and bring

them back at any time in the future if we want to, and that

would remove them from the agenda, I believe.

          MR. ALLEN:    Mr. Chairman, at least from my

perspective, on (a), the Management members were not
                                                                      30


recommending any change in policy there, so I don't see that

that's really one we need to keep on the agenda, if we don't

have consensus to not do anything.

            For the other two having to do with Metropolitan

Statistical Area definitions, I believe no employees would

benefit from making those changes, so I also don't see a problem

with either of those being postponed indefinitely.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Well, I guess we need a motion on

this.    Does anybody feel like making a motion to postpone

indefinitely items (a), (b), and (d)?     If not, we will just

leave them on the agenda as Old Business.

            MR. FENAUGHTY:   Well, what's the purpose of postponing

them?    We're not doing anything with them on the agenda.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   No, we're not.   We're not, either

way.    I'm just trying to be responsive to the concern you raised

a few times.

            MR. FENAUGHTY:   Well, if nothing is going to get done

with them, I guess it doesn't really matter whether they are on

the agenda.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   That's my opinion.   It doesn't

matter.

            MR. FENAUGHTY:   Jacque, what do you think?
                                                                     31


            MS. SIMON:   Well, I hate to sort of give in to this

motion that nothing is going to happen with any of them.      In

particular, item (a), we represent corrections workers in Lee

County, Virginia, and they have contacted the national office

asking consideration to be moved from Eastern Tennessee to West

Virginia.

            And they were experiencing a lot of problems with

turnover.    People would go there to get trained and get inside

the system and leave as soon as they possibly could to a higher

paying area, a different prison.     And that problem, as far as I

know, still exists, and so I am reluctant to throw in the towel.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I think the Department of Justice

supported that position.

            MS. SIMON:   Yes.

            So taking it off the agenda is basically giving up and

giving in, which I'm not prepared to do.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Well, so there's no motion,

and we don't have to remove them.      So we will just leave them

sitting there.    It's fine with me.

            All right.   So that brings up future meeting dates.    I

think we will be circulating the 2015 meeting dates for people's

review next month, right?
                                                                      32


          MS. GONZALEZ:   Yes.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     And I assume the meetings will in

most, if not all cases, be the third Thursday of the month,

unless there's some pressing reason to be on a different date.

          Anything else people need to bring up this morning?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     If not, we have a working group

meeting after this meeting.

          Anything else to address at FPRAC this morning?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Then, it is in order to adjourn.

Is there any objection to adjourning?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Okay.   I hear no objection, so we

are adjourned.   See you all in November.
