FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

1 

609th FPRAC 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

Thursday, January 21, 2016 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management  

Washington, D.C. 20415 

ATTENDANCE: 

Members/Alternates: 

Management Members: 
Mark Allen, OPM 
Jim Davey, DoD 
Dave Curley, Air Force 
Gary Buck, Army 
Arleen Romba, VA (via phone) 

Labor Members: 
Dennis Phelps, MTD 
J. David Cox, AFGE 
Jacque Simon, AFGE 
Robert Shore, NAGE 

Staff Specialists and Visitors: 

 

Brenda Roberts, Designated Federal Officer, OPM 
Madeline Gonzalez, OPM 
Steven Driscoll, OPM 
Kevin Franklin, OPM 
Malik Walker, OPM 
Jim Brady, DoD 
Karl Fendt, DoD 
Becky Chaves, DoD 
Chris Lynch, DoD 
Allison Shroeder, DoD 
Candace Archer, AFGE 
Mike McGinty, AFGE 
Anthony Ferreira, AFGE 
Ned George, AFGE 
Carl Biscontini, AFGE 
Emily Ackerman, Rep. Lou Barletta 
Bob Morgan, Rep. Matt Cartwright 
Stephen Coffey, Rep. Matt Cartwright 
 
 

ATTENDANCE: (continued) 

Recording Secretaries: 
 

Mike Eicher, OPM 
Ana Paunoiu, OPM 

[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.] 

2 

C O N T E N T S  

3 

Page 

I.  Opening/Announcements 

 
Introductions..............................................................................................5 
  Announcements.........................................................................................6 

(cid:173)  Letters to Acting Director Cobert from Senator Robert Casey, 

Representative Matt Cartwright, and Representative Lou Barletta 
regarding the pay disparity at Tobyhanna Army Depot between GS 
and FWS employees and OPM responses, 609-OC-1 

(cid:173)  Link to Senate’s October 22, 2015, hearing on Improving Pay 

Flexibilities in the Federal Workforce - 
http://www.hsgac.senate.gov/hearings/improving-pay-flexibilities-
in-the-federal-workforce  

(cid:173)  Article at The Washington Post (Federal Eye) concerning the pay 
disparity among workers at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, 
609-OC-2 

(cid:173)  FPRAC’s FY 2015 Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA) 

Report, 609-OC-3 

(cid:173)  Fiscal Year 2016 Prevailing Rate Pay Adjustments, 609-OPM-4 

II.  Review of the Minutes of the 608th Meeting...................................................7 

III.  Old Business.....................................................................................................8 

a.  Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2 

(cid:173)  2013 Update to Review of Lee County, Virginia, 586-MGT-1 

b.  Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI Metropolitan Statistical 

Area, 562-MGT-2 
(cid:173)  2013 Update to Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 

Metropolitan Statistical Area, 586-MGT-2 

c.  Letter from the American Federation of Government Employees, Dated 

June 6, 2011, Requesting FPRAC Review a Proposal to Redefine 
Monroe County, PA, from the Scranton–Wilkes-Barre, PA, Wage Area 
to the New York, NY, Wage Area, 564-AFGE-1 

d.  Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC Metropolitan Statistical 

Area, 575-MGT-1 
(cid:173)  2013 Update to Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC 

Metropolitan Statistical Area, 588-MGT-1 

e.  Review of Green County, Missouri, 607-OPM-3 

IV.  New Business....................................................................................................8 
a.  Employment data for the Hickory-Lenoir-Morgantown, NC Metropolitan 

Statistical Area, 609-OPM-1  

b.  Map of the Charlotte FWS Wage Area and the Charlotte-Concord, NC-

SC GS Locality Pay Area, 609-OPM-2 

c.  Review of Monroe County Pennsylvania, 609-OPM-3 
d.  Remarks by Mr. Bob Morgan, District Director for Congressman Matt 

Cartwright, on the need to unify wages for employees at Tobyhanna 
Army Depot and the Locality Pay Equity Act 

e.  Letter from Senator Robert Casey to the FPRAC members in support of 

ending the disparity between GS and FWS employees at Tobyhanna 
Army Depot, 609-OC-4 

4 

 
 

 

 

P R O C E E D I N G  

5 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our 609th 

meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee. My name is Sheldon Friedman, 

Chair of the Committee, and we have one of our members on the phone who will introduce 

herself in a minute. I also know ACT is absent today. Other than that, I think we've got a pretty 

full house. Let’s go around and introduce ourselves, please, starting today with you, Mark. 

MR. ALLEN: I'm Mark Allen with OPM. 

MR. DAVEY: Jim Davey with DoD. 

MR. CURLEY: Dave Curley with the Air Force. 

MR. BUCK: Gary Buck, Army. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Dennis? 

MR. PHELPS: Dennis Phelps, Metal Trade Department. 

MR. COX: J. David Cox, American Federation of Government Employees. 

MS. SIMON: Jacque Simon, AFGE. 

MR. SHORE: Rob Shore, NAGE. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And I'd appreciate it if folks around the edges of the 

room would also please introduce themselves and do it fairly loudly, so our recorder can pick up 

your names. 

MS. ROBERTS: Brenda Roberts, OPM, Designated Federal Officer. 

MR. DRISCOLL: Steve Driscoll, OPM. 

MR. BRADY: Good morning. Jim Brady, DoD. 

MR. FENDT: Karl Fendt, DoD. 

MS. CHAVES: Becky Chaves, DoD. 

 

MS. PAUNOIU: Ana Paunoiu, OPM. 

MR. EICHER: Mike Eicher, OPM. 

6 

MS. GONZALEZ: Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 

MR. GEORGE: Ned George, AFGE Local 1647, Tobyhanna Army Depot. 

MR. BISCONTINI: Carl Biscontini, President, Local 1647, Tobyhanna Army 

Depot. 

MR. McGINTY: Mike McGinty, AFGE Local 1647, Tobyhanna Army Depot. 

MR. FERREIRA: Tony Ferreira, Sergeant-at-Arms, AFGE Local 1647, 

Tobyhanna Army Depot. 

MR. MORGAN: Bob Morgan, District Director for Congressman Matt 

Cartwright, Pennsylvania 17. 

MR. COFFEY: Stephen Coffey, Legislative Assistant for Congressman Matt 

Cartwright. 

today. 

MS. ARCHER: Candace Archer, AFGE. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Welcome to all of our visitors from Pennsylvania 

I have a few announcements before we get into the business part of the meeting, 

so the first thing is a series of letters that were sent to OPM Acting Director Cobert from Senator 

Casey and Representatives Cartwright and Barletta regarding the pay situation at Tobyhanna 

Army Depot, and OPM's replies. Since we have several other agenda items relating to 

Tobyhanna today, I would suggest we group all that together. This correspondence is 

background information for that discussion. 

There was a hearing back in October on pay flexibilities in the federal workforce. 

 

7 

Brenda was the person representing OPM at that hearing, and I thought people would be 

interested, if you didn't already watch it, to look at the YouTube video of the hearing. The link is 

there for you to do that. 

The article from the Washington Post at this point is a little bit of old news about 

the situation at the Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst.  

The annual report that FPRAC is required to file with GSA under the Federal 

Advisory Committee Act, we have been distributing that the last few years. I doubt if there's 

anything in there that you will find exceptional. I've circulated it for your background 

information. 

And last but not least, there is the Acting Director's memo on fiscal year 2016 

prevailing rate pay adjustments, a rather lengthy memo. Probably everyone has seen it already. If 

there are any questions about it, ask Mark. 

[Laughter.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Maybe I should just make a brief pause to see if there 

are any questions about the pay adjustment memo. 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: If not, that brings up the review of the minutes of our 

608th meeting. Are there any corrections that we haven't heard from you about yet that you want 

to make now? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: If not, is there any objection to adopting the transcript 

of our 608th meeting? 

[No audible response.] 

 

8 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Hearing no objection, the transcript is adopted. 

Thank you. 

That brings up Old Business. Let me just say a word about Tobyhanna. So we 

have item (c) which was the letter submitted several years ago from AFGE regarding 

Tobyhanna, and we also have several New Business items, (c) under New Business, (d) and (e). I 

would suggest we group all of that together and discuss it all at one time. And if that's agreeable, 

I would suggest we go ahead and get into that. 

I'm open to proceeding in any order. We can start with some statement, if you 

want, about the letter from 2011 from AFGE. We also want to hear from Mark about the review 

of Monroe County that he and the staff just completed. We also have a guest speaker,  

Mr. Morgan, but I'm not sure how many other Hill staff representatives also want to make 

remarks this morning. However many want to, certainly are welcome to do so. So we can do that 

in any order.  

MR. COX: Mr. Chairman, I believe that OPM staff did a review of Monroe 

County, and I didn't know if Mark was prepared to discuss this document or not. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: We can certainly start with that. Mark, the floor is 

yours. 

MR. ALLEN: Sure. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: If you could walk us through 609-OPM-3. 

MR. ALLEN: As J. David has said, OPM staff prepared an analysis document. As 

we commonly do, we get questions about wage area definitions. OPM has criteria in regulations 

that are designed to be used by OPM under the advice of this committee to define Federal Wage 

System wage areas. We currently have 131 Federal Wage System wage areas around the country. 

 

9 

The Scranton wage area is one of those wage areas, and it has been a separate wage area since 

the creation of the pay system by statute in 1972. 

Basically, under 609-OPM-3, OPM staff provides an analysis of the definition of 

the Scranton wage area. OPM staff took a fresh look at the regulatory criteria to see if the 

distance, commuting patterns, and industrial establishment criteria have changed at all over time. 

This analysis gives an up-to-date impression of what the wage area looks like today. 

There is a survey area for the Scranton wage area, which is comprised of three 

counties: Lackawanna, Luzerne, and Monroe. Monroe County is the one that we are specifically 

reviewing, as that is the location of Tobyhanna Army Depot. 

There are, at last count, 1,584 Federal Wage System employees in Monroe 

County. All of those employees work at Tobyhanna Army Depot, either at the Department of the 

Army or at the Department of Defense. All employees are represented—at least the bargaining 

unit employees—by AFGE. 

There is a separate Metropolitan Statistical Area for Monroe County, which is 

defined by the Office of Management and Budget as the East Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania, 

Metropolitan Statistical Area. That's a single-county metropolitan area. 

On page 3 of the document, we have a summary of the regulatory analysis 

findings from Attachment 2. There's more detail in Attachment 2 than in the summary, but 

basically, what the analysis leads towards is that, if we look at the distance criterion, which is 

generally the first criterion that we look at under the prevailing rate system, Monroe County is 

closer to the Scranton wage area than to any other wage area. 

Commuting patterns for residents of Monroe County to nearby survey areas 

indicate that the commuting patterns criterion favors keeping Monroe County in the Scranton 

 

10 

wage area, and the overall population, private-sector employment and the kinds and sizes of 

private industrial establishments criterion, also favors the Scranton wage area. 

Looking in more detail at the distance criterion, we find that there are 22 miles 

from Tobyhanna Army Depot to Scranton and 98 miles from the Depot to New York. 

Looking at commuting patterns, we did find that there is a pretty strong degree of 

linkage between Monroe County and the New York survey area. According to the most recent 

census workflow information we have, there is 20 percent commuting from Monroe County into 

the New York survey area. 

On the other hand, what we see is that 62 percent of the Monroe County resident 

workforce commutes to jobs in the Scranton survey area, into the three towns of the current 

survey area definition. 

In this case, we did something a little bit different with commuting patterns than 

we normally do with wage area reviews, and that is that we usually look at out-commuting, like 

where the residents of a county commute to go to work. In this case, we also looked at where 

people come from to work in Monroe County. There are two ways of looking at commuting, and 

from time to time, we consider both. 

In this case, 72 percent of the workers with jobs in Monroe County reside in 

Monroe County, and 82 percent of workers with jobs in Monroe County live in the Scranton 

survey area. 

Attachment 1 has several maps. Included maps are the New York wage area—the 

cross-hatch area is the survey area. The yellow color on that map is the New York metropolitan 

area. There's also a map of the Philadelphia wage area and of the Scranton wage area. The last 

two maps that we have here are screen captures of Google maps showing a possible route that 

 

11 

somebody might take if they were going to go from Tobyhanna Army Depot to—the first one is 

to New York, and that's where the distance information shows the 98 miles, and the second map 

shows 22 miles from Tobyhanna Army Depot into downtown Scranton. Attachment 2 includes 

the analysis of the distance, commuting patterns, and the similarities in overall population, 

employment, and the kinds and sizes of private industrial establishments criteria. At the very 

end, as we usually do, we have the current wage schedules that are applicable in the 

Philadelphia, Scranton, and New York wage areas. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you, Mark. Before I turn to questions and 

discussions on this, a number of people joined us after we went around the room and introduced 

ourselves. I would appreciate it if everyone who didn't already introduce themselves for the 

recorder would do that. 

MR. LYNCH: Christopher Lynch, Department of Defense. 

MS. SHROEDER: Allie Shroeder, Department of Defense. 

MR. WALKER: Malik Walker, OPM, Congressional Legislative Affairs. 

MS. ACKERMAN: Emily Ackerman, Congressman Lou Barletta's office. 

MR. FRANKLIN: Kevin Franklin, OPM, Congressional. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. Is that all the—oh, yes. Hi, Arlene. I'm sorry 

that I forgot to ask you to introduce yourself. Are you still on the phone? 

MS. ROMBA: That's quite all right. I am on the line. I was just about to introduce 

myself. 

MS. ROMBA: Arlene Romba with the VA. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you.  

Okay. Now, any questions and discussions on Mark's report on 609-OPM-3? 

 

12 

MR. COX: Mr. Chairman, Jacque has some questions for Mark. 

MS. SIMON: Yes, I do, if you don't mind. This is an unusual analysis that's been 

put forward. I don't think there's ever been any question about whether Tobyhanna Army Depot 

was located near Scranton. That has never been a question. That has never been an issue. 

What we see in this analysis is that 95 percent of the federal blue collar workers in 

the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre wage area work in Monroe County, and the other 76 are distributed 

among—one, two, three, four, five, six—seven other counties. It would have been helpful to see 

where these 76 others are employed throughout this totally anachronistic wage area. 

We know that Monroe County is close to Scranton and Wilkes-Barre. Unless all 

76 are in Scranton, the justification for having a Scranton-Wilkes-Barre wage area doesn't exist. 

Even if all 76 were there, it's 5 percent of the total FWS employment in the wage area. 

I am not really sure what the utility of this analysis is because we certainly 

already knew Monroe County is close to Scranton and Wilkes-Barre. Mark, do you have that 

information about the distribution of that 5 percent of the rest of the FWS employment, how 

they're distributed among those many other counties? 

MR. ALLEN: I don't have the information with me today, but I am aware that 

there is a VA Medical Center in Wilkes—I always get this wrong. "Wilkes-Barre"? 

MS. SIMON: "Wilkes-Barre." 

MR. ALLEN: "Barre," okay. There is a VA Medical Center there. I think there 

may also be some National Park Service employees, and there may be an Army National Guard 

unit, but that's just going from memory. I'm not sure how many people there are. 

MS. SIMON: But I think that's Wyoming County. Yeah. And is that Luzerne? 

Where is it? Which is Wilkes-Barre? 

13 

MR. COX: The VA would be in Luzerne. 

 

MS. SIMON: Luzerne County? 

MR. COX: Yes. 

MS. SIMON: Okay, that's Luzerne County. 

MR. ALLEN: Yes. It's a fact that the Depot is one of the largest, if not the largest 

employer of the core private sector in Northeastern Pennsylvania. 

MS. SIMON: Well, it's 95 percent of the federal blue-collar workers in this wage 

area work in Monroe County, according to your report. 

MR. ALLEN: That sounds accurate. 

MS. SIMON: And so you think there's a handful in Luzerne at the VA Medical 

Center, and anybody else? Where is the rest of the 76? 

MR. ALLEN: We only did an analysis of Monroe County for this purpose. We 

don't have that information pulled together today, but we can get that. 

MS. SIMON: Okay. 

MR. ALLEN: We will get that information on where everybody else is. 

MS. SIMON: It's not actually all that important. I know that Madeline did that 

superb analysis in the book that's that thick that shows where everybody would go if the 2010 

proposal to limit GS localities to one Federal Wage System wage area were implemented, and it 

involves abolishing certain wage areas and redistributing those counties to other wage areas 

when they didn't have enough blue-collar workers to justify the cost of the surveys and to justify 

the cost of continuing them as separate wage areas, and it's clearly the case with Monroe County 

that there is no justification for the expense of maintaining it as a separate wage area when 

virtually all of the blue-collar workers are in Monroe County. 

 

14 

So we've already got recommendations in that study of how these workers might 

be distributed among other wage areas; is that correct? 

MR. ALLEN: Yes. That information is probably a bit dated now. I think the last 

time that was updated was in 2012. 

MS. SIMON: But distance doesn't change. 

MR. ALLEN: No. 

MS. SIMON: Okay. Those are all my questions. 

MR. COX: Mr. Chairman, with that, I would move that we abolish the Scranton-

Wilkes-Barre wage area and move Monroe County to the New York City wage area and the 

other counties to the adjacent wage areas. Do I have a second? 

MS. SIMON: Second. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: It has been moved and seconded. Would you mind 

writing down the motion so that we have it in writing? 

MR. COX: I will be glad to give it to you. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Perfect. All right. So it's been moved and seconded to 

abolish the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre wage area and move Monroe County to the New York City 

wage area and the other counties to adjacent wage areas. Okay. 

We do have a guest speaker. I am trying to situate him in the proceedings here. I 

don't want to interrupt the flow. Jim, do you want to say something? Go ahead, and then we will 

turn to the guest speaker. 

MR. ALLEN: I'd say now is a good time. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: All right. How many guest speakers do we have? I 

know we have one. My question is, Do we have more than one? We have other Congressional 

 

15 

representatives, and do they want to say something also, or is it just Mr. Morgan? 

MR. COX: Mr. Chairman, if I may, I actually believe the maker of the motion 

probably retains the right to speak first. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Absolutely. 

MR. COX: All right. As I look at this map and you give me the numbers and all 

the 76 of these employees are located in Monroe County—and I believe according to OPM's own 

data, according to the geography and the county lines, of everything in this map—Monroe 

County is directly adjacent, touches with its border the New York wage area. It's caught right 

between the Philadelphia and the New York wage areas. We're doing one wage survey for New 

York already. I think also that there is a great deal of expense to do all these wage surveys, a lot 

of time, a lot of energy, a lot of effort. We have talked at times there are over 100 and some 

survey areas in this country. We have offered many proposals to consolidate, and this is a classic 

example where 95 percent of those employees are directly adjacent. They are affected by the cost 

of living. I believe OPM said that the commuting patterns and all clearly were aligned with that 

area. 

This wage area exists for some reason that really doesn't make sense, and I think 

it makes sense just to abolish it, align Monroe County to the New York City area, the other 

counties in accordance with whatever area it may be—Philadelphia, it could be the Harrisburg 

area—where they would flow along the way. 

I think it is time to move forward to get this off the agenda and to deal with it. I 

believe we've been talking about it for over 8 years now, so time to move forward, and I look 

forward to hearing from the people that actually live there and give me the bird's-eye view of 

what's going on. 

 

16 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you. And we're going to have a full debate and 

discussion of this in just a moment, but I would like to call on Mr. Bob Morgan, the district 

director for Congressman Matt Cartwright, who is our guest speaker and has requested time to 

speak to us on this matter. Thank you for coming to the table, and if you can be in front of a 

microphone, that's great. Make sure it's turned on. 

MR. MORGAN: I believe it is, yes. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: The floor is yours, sir. 

MR.MORGAN: Thank you. Chairman Friedman, I'd like to thank the Federal 

Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee for allowing me to speak here today. It is a privilege to 

discuss this important issue, an issue that represents a serious injustice in the way federal 

employees are treated. 

This Committee voted unified wages for employees at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-

Lakehurst in New Jersey, and I hope it will do the same for Tobyhanna Army Depot because 

paying hourly and salary workers who work in the same location as though they worked in 

different locations is manifestly unfair. 

The federal Office of Personnel Management calculates locality pay based on 

boundaries that were drawn long ago, and because of that, salaried federal workers are paid more 

than hourly wage federal workers who work in the very same place. This inequity comes as a 

result of discrepancy between the boundaries, blue-collar versus white-collar workers. Blue-

collar locality boundaries were drawn reflecting placement of military installations in the 1950s. 

White-collar locality boundaries were drawn to encompass modern-day metropolitan labor 

markets based on current census data and commuting cost. 

Under the current policy, General Schedule or salary employees at Tobyhanna are 

 

17 

placed in the New York City regional boundary. They receive a 25 percent bonus. However, 

hourly employees at Tobyhanna Army Depot are included in the Scranton wage area, which is 

part of a pay area known as the "rest of the U.S." 

The current system is severely, not to mention obviously, outdated. Hourly and 

salary workers travel the same highways, take the same vans and buses, and buy lunch in the 

very same places. This is unacceptable and unfair. There should be absolutely no pay differential 

between hourly wage workers and salaried employees who work in the same location. This is 

why Congressman Cartwright, along with four other Pennsylvania Congressmen, introduced the 

Locality Pay Equity Act. This bill will direct the Office of Personnel Management to fix this 

antiquated system by prohibiting the office from defining more than one local wage area for 

prevailing rate employees within a pay locality. 

To ensure workers who are currently paid a higher rate are not injured by this 

legislation, the bill will further prohibit the office from decreasing locality pay for workers 

currently paid at the higher locality rate. 

The Locality Pay Equity Act will fix this unjust pay discrepancy and will help 

federal workers who need it. It will make sure that blue-collar federal employees are treated in 

the same manner as white-collar workers, and it will end the inequity and accidental 

discrimination currently in place due to this outdated classification system. 

The workers at Tobyhanna Army Depot deserve the same pay, regardless of 

whether they are hourly or salary. It's time to fix this problem, and Congressman Cartwright is 

committed to fighting to ensure Congress adopts this legislation. 

Thank you again for allowing me the opportunity to speak today about this very 

important issue. 

 

18 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you for those remarks, Mr. Morgan. We will 

be sure they appear in the transcript of this meeting. 

Any questions or discussion? Questions for Mr. Morgan? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Am I correct that the other Congressional 

representatives, staff people, do not wish to speak this morning? Raise your hand if you do. 

MR. GEORGE: I am not Congressional. I am from the local and would like to 

speak. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Please do, if you're from the local. Why don't you 

come up to the table?  

MR. GEORGE: Here? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Where Mr. Morgan was sitting is good, just as long 

as you're in front of a microphone and the microphone is on. 

MR. GEORGE: I think it's on. Can everyone hear me? My name is Ned George. I 

am the vice president of AFGE Local 1647 at Tobyhanna Army Depot. I am a WG worker. I'm a 

painter. 

Every day, we paint assets and material that keep us right here in this office safe. I 

put down infrared coatings on Humvees. We are constantly—there's a culture at our place now 

because what this has transpired to do is a lot of our workers, they almost feel like they're 

fighting against each other, and it's because of the pay inequity that's going on at that point. 

A lot of our skills and our WGs, our blue collar workers, it's hard to keep them in 

our things because they're trying to get out to the GS side of the house or they're going 

somewhere else, so we are constantly struggling to retain these people. And it's tough. It's a 

 

19 

tough fight at that point, and I just wish this Committee would sit down and do what is right. It's 

been a long time coming. 

And that's all I have to say. Thank you. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you very much. 

Any questions? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Well, okay. So back to debate on the motion. Jim, did 

you want to speak? 

MR. DAVEY: Yes, if I may.  

I'm curious, and I was hoping you all from Tobyhanna would help me remember 

what part of the county Tobyhanna Army Depot is located within, what part of Monroe County. 

My concept is it is northwest, and it's pretty near the other counties, Luzerne and maybe 

Lackawanna; is that correct? 

MR. McGINTY: That's correct, sir, and to the border of the New York pay area is 

approximately the same distance as it is to Scranton. 

MR. DAVEY: Monroe County has different—I picture it's about 30 miles wide, 

north to south, east to west. 

MR. McGINTY: Right. 

MR. DAVEY: And you all are in the upper left-hand quadrant? Is that a fair 

statement? 

MR. McGINTY: Correct. 

MR. DAVEY: So if there is commuting going on between Monroe County and 

the New York area—well, or towards the east or southeast, I'm going to speculate that it's 

 

20 

happening not necessarily from the northwest corner, but more likely from the areas closer to 

New York City than Tobyhanna. 

MR. McGINTY: That is not necessarily true, sir. As a matter of fact, there's a 

separate bus station very close to our Depot that— 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Sir, why don't you come on up and sit next to a 

microphone, so we can at least capture this for the transcript? 

MR. McGINTY: In response to— 

MR. DAVEY: Mr. Davey. 

MR McGINTY: —Mr. Davey's question about the people commuting, living 

closer to the New York area, it’s not necessarily true because very close to our Depot is a huge 

bus terminal that services the commuters in that area. It was built especially just for the 

commuters to go to the New York area. 

MR. DAVEY: Do you know how many people are on that bus compared to how 

many people out of Stroudsburg are on that bus? 

MR. McGINTY: It is not one bus. It is 5 to 10 buses. 

MR. GEORGE: It's 80 buses. 

MR. McGINTY: Eighty buses? 

MR. BUCK: A day? 

MR. DAVEY: My point is I would expect more from the eastern part of Monroe 

County to go to New York than from Tobyhanna. 

MR. GEORGE: There's no way to determine that, sir. They come from all over 

the county. 

MR. DAVEY: It just makes sense to me that the farther you are away from New 

 

21 

York City, the less likely you are to commute. 

MR. GEORGE: That's not necessarily true if the rates are better down there, sir. 

MR. McGINTY: The entire county is a bedroom community for New York City. 

MR. DAVEY: Well, according to some information I have from the Tobyhanna 

website—and it describes where the employees come from or where they live and reside—the 

majority of the employees come from Lackawanna, Luzerne, and Monroe County itself. The top 

three counties where the Tobyhanna employees reside are where we survey, where the wage 

survey takes place. 

So it appears to me that our system right now properly awards people who work 

at Tobyhanna by surveying where they live, where their counterparts are living as well. 

MR. GEORGE: Only half of them. 

MS. SIMON: That is irrelevant to any of the criteria that we're considering. 

MR. DAVEY: We were talking commuting patterns, and I am just pointing out 

that the commuting patterns of the Tobyhanna workforce show that they come from our survey 

area, so I think it's pretty relevant. 

MR. SHORE: Can I say, I think what J. David and Jacque were saying before is 

that actually most of the employees, 70 percent or more, actually live within the county itself. So 

the fact that maybe 5 percent live in Northampton County, I think it's less relevant. 

MR. DAVEY: I am not talking about the 5 percent from Northampton County. I 

am talking about the three largest counties where Tobyhanna employees come from or work or 

reside—they're our survey counties, Lackawanna, Luzerne, and Monroe. 

So my point is we survey where our people commute from, and we are setting a 

pay scale based on that. It seems pretty fair to me and pretty appropriate in the way it works 

 

22 

today. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Anyone else? 

MS. SIMON: I know that people are loathe to use—the General Schedule locality 

pay system has a model, even though it is a much more—it's much more contemporary and is 

based on the local labor markets rather than the location of military installations. 

But we also in the white-collar pay system have recently adopted a rule having to 

do with counties that are surrounded by other localities, and Monroe County is almost 

completely surrounded. It's surrounded—a big portion of its border is adjacent to the 

Philadelphia wage area. Another big portion of its border is adjacent to the New York City wage 

area, and a very small portion of its border is connected to the wage area that we proposed 

abolishing, Scranton-Wilkes-Barre. 

The Scranton-Wilkes-Barre wage area only exists because of Monroe County. 

There is no other reason for that wage area to exist. We've got a 43-year-old rule. It's 

anachronistic. It doesn't reflect current commuting patterns, current labor markets, and we all 

know that the Department of Defense faces terrible budget pressures. Abolishing this county 

would save the cost of surveying this area when all, virtually all its blue-collar workforce, is in 

Monroe County. 

MR. DAVEY: I think abolishing the survey, as proposed, and moving Monroe to 

the New York City area does exactly the opposite for budgets than what we're describing, saving 

a little bit of money on the survey compared to—I forget the number. Twenty-five percent pay 

increase or— 

MS. SIMON: It's not a 25 percent pay increase. That is completely and utterly 

false. It is a much smaller pay adjustment and would vary tremendously, and it's a very modest 

 

23 

cost. 

MR. DAVEY: Well, the cost of the survey is by far a lot smaller than the cost of 

whatever pay change we're talking about for this proposal. So the idea of saving a penny here, I 

don't agree with that. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Anybody else on either side of the table want to 

speak? I guess it's Labor's turn, if anybody else wants to.  

MR. ALLEN: Well, I would just like— 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Mark? Okay. 

MR. ALLEN: It is correct that the wage adjustments that would accrue to 

employees at Tobyhanna Army Depot are not 25 percent for everybody. When we look at the 

wage schedule, it's 1.2 percent for wage grade 1. But most Federal Wage System employees 

these days are more in the skilled trades positions than in the lower graded positions, excluding 

VA. Within DoD, most employees would probably be in the range of wage grade 10. It would be 

about a 20 percent increase. 

But having said that, OPM does not base its decisions on administering Federal 

Wage System wage areas by comparing labor market rates in one wage area compared to 

another. We base them on the criteria, the distance from where people work to— 

MS. SIMON: Exactly. 

MR. ALLEN: —a nearby metropolitan area and— 

MS. SIMON: Exactly. And no one has ever tried to suggest that Monroe County 

is not close to Scranton. That's a fact. 

What motivates our motion is the reality that the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre wage 

area is an anachronism, and it should be abolished. And 95 percent of its blue-collar workforce is 

 

24 

in Monroe County, which should be in the New York City wage area, and the rest, the 76 other 

blue-collar workers we can only imagine distributed variously among the other counties of that 

wage area can easily be added to Rochester, Harrisburg, Philadelphia, or New York, as 

appropriate. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Anything else on the Management side? Do you want 

to say anything, Jim? 

MR. DAVEY: I think that the current survey area for Tobyhanna Army Depot is 

really the epitome of why the Federal Wage System exists. We survey outside the gate, get pay 

information from people outside the gate. We have the ability and the skill to do the wage 

surveys. I think the locality pay system doesn't quite have the same preciseness that we get with 

the Federal Wage System. 

New York pay, for example, they exported to the East Stroudsburg metropolitan 

statistical area because part of the reason is there is no capability within the locality system to do 

130 surveys around the country, so you make adjustments where needed, and this is an example 

of an adjustment. 

I think the proposal we're talking about, actually you have to skip over counties. 

The survey area for New York in the Federal Wage System is central to New York, and then 

you'd have to skip over counties and then apply it also to Tobyhanna, even further out. So it 

makes less sense to me that we'd make New York City the area considering the survey area of 

New York City has very little relationship to what we're talking about in the East Stroudsburg 

metropolitan statistical area. 

MS. SIMON: I have to speak up on behalf of the highly trained employees of the 

Bureau of Labor Statistics, who AFGE also proudly represents, who conduct the National 

 

25 

Compensation Survey and the Occupational Employment Statistics Survey. The precision of 

their data, the quality of their data far exceeds the quality of the data collected by wage 

committees for the Federal Wage System. We have far, far more precision in definitions of 

occupations, white and blue collar, in both of those Bureau of Labor Statistics' surveys than 

anything that's produced in the Federal Wage System's wage surveys. And we have long 

supported substituting BLS data for these wage surveys because of many documented 

shortcomings and the data that's produced from these surveys—employers that don't want to 

participate, the ridiculous exclusion of union-scale wages, and the scale of trades that our blue-

collar system requires. 

So if you want to debate precision and accuracy and quality of data, there is no 

comparison between what we get from our wage surveys in this blue-collar system and the 

quality of the data used for the white-collar pay system. In every situation, the data used for the 

white-collar system is superior, more precise, more accurate, and more representative of the 

actual jobs that our people perform in many of our depots and arsenals all around the country. It's 

very, very technical and highly skilled work, and it's almost never captured, maybe even never. 

Maybe it's not too much to say never captured in these wage surveys because this is inherently 

governmental work. There is no work in the private sector that's just like what our members at 

Tobyhanna perform. There is nothing in the private sector that's comparable, not in Monroe 

County, not in the Scranton wage area, nowhere in the private sector. 

So your point, I strongly object to. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Well, this is a wide-ranging set of comments, and it 

invokes the whole issue of the survey system, which I think probably is beyond the scope of our 

meeting this morning. 

 

26 

MS. SIMON: True. We took it up in our work group. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And I'm not sure we need to resolve that in order to 

address the current motion. 

MR. PHELPS: I will call the question, Mr. Chairman. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. The question has been called.  

I don't want to cut anyone off. Does anyone else want to say something who 

hasn't spoken yet? 

MR. ALLEN: The Management members would like to take a caucus, 

Mr. Chairman. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Certainly. I believe we have the Small Pendleton 

Room available. 

[Management members go in caucus off the record.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Welcome back, everyone. Management has returned 

from its caucus. Is there a report from the caucus that you would like to share with the rest of the 

Committee? 

MR. ALLEN: Yes, Mr. Chairman. We do not have consensus on the AFGE 

motion. There are a number of reasons for this. There is one thing that seems to be mainly 

driving this, which is the October 2010 FPRAC recommendation, which the Management 

members strongly objected to, which would be to attempt to combine two separate statutory pay 

system methodologies together, where the Federal Wage System methodology is maintained 

separately under statute and under OPM's regulations. 

There are a number of reasons why the Management members believe that there 

should be a separate Scranton wage area. The primary thing driving that belief is basically that 

 

27 

the rates of pay, as measured by local wage surveys, are markedly different between Scranton 

and New York. Based on the local market surveys that the Department of Defense conducts 

under OPM's regulations, and with a majority of the employees in the Scranton wage area at 

wage grade 10, the difference in market rates between Scranton and New York is around  

20 percent. 

By combining the largest employer in Northeastern Pennsylvania with the New 

York wage area, what would basically happen would be that the 1,500 or so Federal Wage 

System employees in Monroe County would end up being paid considerably above what they 

could reasonably expect to earn within their local labor market. The employees of the Depot 

have very little relationship with the New York City labor market. 

There is one other thing I wanted to mention. This is something that Jacque was 

referring to about there being not much of a linkage between the Depot and Scranton in terms of 

federal employees. The way that the Federal Wage System was originally established, and has 

been maintained, is such that a wage area would be established where there is a very large 

federal employment presence in an area. If there was no city right where that large military 

installation or VA Medical Center was located, then the closest city would be linked up with the 

county where the military installation or VA medical center was located. That is how we arrived 

at the distance criteria, which very strongly favors measuring prevailing wage levels in the 

current Scranton survey area rather than going to New York City to measure wage levels there. 

We know for a fact that, based on local market surveys, the Scranton wage schedule is different 

from the New York wage schedule for the simple reason that the wage rates are lower as paid by 

private sector employers than they are in New York. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. The question had been called, but I think 

 

28 

perhaps, if it's okay with you Dennis, maybe a little bit more discussion is in order. It's up to you. 

MR. PHELPS: Well, these are things that we have already heard over and over 

again from the Management side. I think I can call the question, and I think we should vote on it. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I do think our visitors from Tobyhanna wanted to say 

something else. Am I right about that? 

MR. GEORGE: I would like to make one quick statement, if you don't mind, sir. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Absolutely. 

MR. GEORGE: Mr. Allen, to talk about your comments on the wage survey, we 

are hard-pressed to find businesses outside of our gates that do the kind of work we do inside. 

Just on our painting at that point, when we go to other painting areas and other businesses in the 

area, they are painting block walls. They are painting sheetrock at that point. I am painting more 

secured authentic urethanes. I am certified with DoD at that point, through STAR4D at that 

point, and these other areas aren't.  

Our sheet metal guys, we're doing much higher sheet metal work than electronics 

guys. We're not putting nuts on a wall. We're not doing that kind of—we're doing major, major 

work—I don't know if you've ever been to Tobyhanna. Look at the kind of work we do at that 

point, but when we go to do these surveys, there is no one that does the kind of work that we do, 

for us to survey, to be comparable. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: All right. The question has been called. If there is no 

further discussion, I believe we— 

MR. DAVEY: Mr. Chairman, may I add something? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes, sir. 

MR. DAVEY: I just want to reiterate—sorry, Dennis—that all of the Federal 

 

29 

Wage System criteria point to keeping the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre survey area the way it is. The 

motion on the table ignores each and every one of those criteria, which clearly point to Scranton-

Wilkes-Barre staying the way it is. 

The idea of abolishing an area, a survey area or a wage area, because a GS 

locality exists in that area, this is not a criteria in any way, shape, or form that we understand 

within the Federal Wage System. 

The wage area of Scranton-Wilkes-Barre is really the gold standard of why we do 

Federal Wage System wage surveys. You survey right outside the gate. You pay what's being 

paid right outside the gate. The employees come from right outside the gate. So I would submit 

that what we're talking about is 100 percent counter to any of those concepts. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you, Jim. 

All right. Well, the question has been called. I will read the motion, so we'll know 

what we're voting on. 

MS. GONZALEZ: Mr. Chairman, there are four Labor members and five 

Management members. This means that one Management member cannot vote. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes. So somebody in Management needs to recuse 

themselves from voting. 

Is Arlene still with us? 

MS. GONZALEZ: Arlene? 

MS. ROMBA: Yes, I am. I will recuse myself. 

MS. GONZALEZ: Okay. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I didn't mean to suggest that you should be the one to 

 

30 

do that, but I just wanted to make sure you're still there. 

MS. ROMBA: That's quite all right. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: But that does solve that problem. Okay. 

I will read the motion. Abolish the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre wage area and move 

Monroe County to the New York City wage area and the other counties to the adjacent wage 

areas.  

I believe we are ready to vote, Madeline. 

MS. GONZALEZ: I need a "yes" or "no" answer please. 

OPM? 

MR. ALLEN: OPM votes no. 

MS. GONZALEZ: DoD? 

MR. DAVEY: No. 

MS. GONZALEZ: Air Force? 

MR. CURLEY: No. 

MS. GONZALEZ: Army? 

MR. BUCK: No. 

MS. GONZALEZ: Metal Trades? 

MR. PHELPS: Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ: AFGE, Mr. Cox? 

MR. COX: Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ: AFGE, Ms. Simon? 

MS. SIMON: Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ: NAGE? 

31 

MR. SHORE: Yes. 

 

MS. GONZALEZ: It's a tie, Mr. Chairman, 4 to 4. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you. 

Well, the Chair votes yes.  

I'd like to make two statements for the record in regard to my vote. It is possible 

that what we're voting on can't be accomplished under existing regulation. If that's the case, it 

shouldn't be that hard to revisit the regulations and come up with something that would enable 

this to be implemented under regulation. 

It seems to me that we would not be here on this topic if, back in 2005, half of the 

Tobyhanna workforce that's paid from the General Schedule had not been moved into the New 

York wage area. It's obvious that this created—in my mind, anyway, obvious—that this created 

very serious inequity internally at that workplace. It has not gone away. Here we are, more than 

10 years later, and people are, I think, quite understandably still unhappy and upset about it.  

I think it is certainly true, as the Management side has pointed out, that the laws 

and regulations governing the two major federal pay systems are different, but the reality is these 

people work together side by side in many cases, Tobyhanna being a very, very good example of 

that, and I don't think there is any way you could make it seem fair to somebody who had been 

working next to somebody else in the exact same geographic location, often perhaps doing very 

similar work, and yet one of those folks gets a very large pay increase based on geography and 

the other doesn't. 

I think this is a problem that we have in the Federal Wage System in other areas 

of the country. We have proposed a potential solution that hasn't been implemented yet, but it's 

not something that is going to go away. 

 

32 

So, with that, we end that discussion. So thank you all. 

We have some other agenda items if people still have any time or patience. 

MR. DAVEY: Mr. Chairman, I would like to make you aware that there will be a 

minority report filed. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes. I would expect that. 

Let's see if we have—you are here, J. David. You had raised questions about an 

issue in North Carolina that's been an Old Business agenda item for quite some time having to do 

with the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, North Carolina, Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-2. 

The MSA is currently split between the Asheville and Charlotte wage areas. 

The Management proposal is to move two counties that have no FWS 

employment currently into the Asheville wage area based on their analysis of the regulatory 

criteria. A question was raised regarding how do the boundaries of the new Charlotte GS locality 

pay area affect this issue, and we have a map in our packet, 609-OPM-2. The map shows that the 

counties in question are not within the Charlotte GS locality pay area. 

Mark, is there anything you want to add about the various staff documents that 

have been produced on this question? 

MR. ALLEN: Yes, Mr. Chairman. The analysis started in 2012. Basically OPM 

has a regulation that says that unless there is a very unusual circumstance, wage area boundaries 

should not split metropolitan area boundaries. The Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, North Carolina, 

metropolitan area is split between the Asheville and Charlotte wage areas. In 575-MGT-1, the 

Management members recommended that Alexander and Catawba Counties be redefined to the 

Asheville area of application, and that was primarily based on distance. There were 19 FWS 

employees—the only employees in the metropolitan area are in Caldwell County—so that's 

where the distance measurement came from. I don't believe that's actually the largest population 

 

33 

county. 

Just looking at the road map, it looks like Hickory, a city in Catawba County, is 

probably the larger city, but we did not measure from there to Charlotte or Asheville. If we did 

measure from Hickory, then most likely the distance criteria would be more in favor of Charlotte 

because it's adjacent to the Charlotte metropolitan area, I believe. 

MR. COX: Knowing the area, Hickory would be the largest city in that area. 

Now, as I'm reading this, there actually are no affected employees? 

MR. ALLEN: That's correct. Under the Management proposal, it would just be 

Alexander and Catawba Counties, which have no FWS employees, being shifted over to the 

Ashville wage area. 

MR. COX: But if you're saying that if you measure from Hickory then it would be 

closest to Charlotte than it would to Asheville? 

MR. ALLEN: I believe so, yes. What we normally do, if we have Federal Wage 

System employees in a metropolitan area, we base the measurements on where the employees 

actually work. In this case, they're only in just the one county, which is— 

MR. COX: Which is Caldwell County. 

MR. ALLEN: Yes. 

MR. COX: They are probably Army. 

MR. ALLEN: They are Army National Guard, 19 wage grade employees. 

MR. COX: Okay. The reason I can't—well, there's no affected employees. At this 

point, no matter which way they go, there wouldn't be an effect on any individual, but if Hickory 

is closest to Charlotte, then why would we not put them into the Charlotte versus put them into 

 

34 

the Asheville? 

MR. ALLEN: It's because the duty station for the Federal Wage System 

employees is in Caldwell County, which is closer to the Asheville survey area. The Management 

recommendation is to no longer split the metropolitan area between wage areas, but move the 

two non-Federal Wage System employment counties to the Asheville wage area. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any further discussion? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Is there consensus to adopt the proposal? 

MR. COX: Yes, okay. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. We have adopted 575-MGT-1 by consensus. 

Any other Old Business items that people want to bring up today? We have items 

(a), (d), and (e) under Old Business that have been sitting there for quite a while. 

[No audible response.]  

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Not today? I'm hoping we can make progress on 

them at our next meeting, if possible. 

Any other New Business? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: If not, it would be in order for us to adjourn. Is there 

any objection to adjourning? 

MS. SIMON: No. 

MR. ALLEN: No. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Hearing no objection, we are adjourned, and I hope 

everybody stays safe from the blizzard. 

