 

 
1 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

583rd FPRAC 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

Thursday, March 21, 2013 

Room 5526 


Office of Personnel Management


Washington, D.C. 20415 


 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors: 
 
 

Management Members: 

Mark Allen, OPM

Steve Rumble, DoD

Pamela Sokol, Army 

 
Labor Members: 
Dennis Phelps, MTD

Jacque Simon, AFGE

Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE

Steven Landis, ACT 

 
Jerry Mikowicz, Designated Federal Officer, OPM
Madeline Gonzalez, OPM
Brenda Roberts, OPM
 
Jeanne Jacobson, OPM
 
Mike Eicher, OPM
Terri Wallace, OPM
Lindsay O'Keefe OPM
Jim Brady, DoD
Karl Fendt, DoD
Bill Becht, DoD 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
Recording Secretaries:  Mike Eicher and Terri Wallace 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.] 

 

 

 

 



 

 
2 

C O N T E N T S 


I. 

  

Page
Opening/Announcements
• Introductions.....................................3 

• Announcements.....................................4 


- FPRAC Annual Summary 2012, 583-OC-1 

 

II.  Review of the Minutes of 582nd Meeting..............9 

 
III.  Old Business........................................9 


a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2

  

- Total Employment in Eastern Tennessee Wage
- List of FWS Wage Areas with Fewer Than 500
- Review of Criteria for Defining Appropriated

Area by County, 566-OPM-1
Employees, 566-OPM-2
Fund Wage Areas, 545-OC-1

b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns
Survey Issues Work Group, 560-OC-1

- FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on 
c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal
Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1
d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 
Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
e. Letter from the American Federation of Government 
Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1
f. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC
Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1
g. Proposal for FPRAC review of the Federal Wage
System Appropriated Fund and Non-Appropriated
Fund Operating Manuals, 575-AFGE-1
h. Suggestion for a research paper on the history
of the Federal Government's prevailing rate
system
Wage System Wage Areas, 578-MGT-1
- Alternate Analysis of the Portland, ME Federal

i. Review of the Augusta and Portland, ME Federal

Wage System Wage Area, 580-MGT-1 

  
IV.  New Business......................................10 


 

a. Definition of Broward County, Florida, to a
NAF Federal Wage System Wage Area, 583-MGT-1
b. Redefinition of the Clayton-Fulton-Cobb, Georgia,
NAF Federal Wage System Wage Area, 583-MGT-2 

 

P R O C E E D I N G 

 
3 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone, and 

MR. PHELPS:  Dennis Phelps for Metal Trades 

 
welcome to this, our 583rd meeting of the Federal 
Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee.  My name is Sheldon 
Friedman, Chair of the Committee, and as usual, why don't 
we go around and introduce ourselves, starting on the Labor 
side today? 
 
Department. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
least one more Management member, so we get four folks on 
the Management side, but let's continue meanwhile. 
 
 
Designated Federal Officer for this meeting. 
 

MS. SIMON:  Jacque Simon, AFGE. 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE. 
MR. LANDIS:  Steve Landis, ACT. 
MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 
MR. RUMBLE:  Steve Rumble, Department of Defense. 
MS. SOKOL:  Pamela Sokol, Department of Army. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And we are hoping for at 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 
MR. MIKOWICZ:  Jerry Mikowicz, OPM, the 

MS. JACOBSON:  Jeanne Jacobson, OPM. 

 

 
4 

MS. ROBERTS:  Brenda Roberts, OPM. 
MR. FENDT:  Karl Fendt, DoD. 
MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, DoD. 
MR. BECHT:  Bill Becht, DoD. 
MS. WALLACE:  Terri Wallace, OPM. 
MS. O'KEEFE:  Lindsay O'Keefe, OPM. 
MR. EICHER: Mike Eicher, OPM. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Thank you, everyone. 
A couple of announcements.  Well, the first one 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is we are sad to say we are going to be losing our 
Designated Federal Officer in a short period of time.  He 
is retiring, Jerry Mikowicz.  It's been a great pleasure 
for me to work with him, and I know I'll miss him.  I feel 
our whole Committee will. 
 
enlighten us on who your successor might be, if that's 
known? 
 
mark my age as -- in PRAC years, I'm 583 years old, because 
I started in OPM in 1974 when PRAC was just starting, and I 
used to attend some of the meetings early on.  Of course, 
it was the building years.  It was really interesting, 

If you want to say anything, Jerry, maybe 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  Yes.  So, today, I guess I would 

 

 
5 

At that time, there were 24 people at OPM working 

because we were all working to make a consistent Federal 
prevailing rate system out of all the separate systems in 
existence at the time.  It was an exciting time. 
 
on the Federal Wage System.  Today, we have Mark who does 
it part-time, because he is managing other programs, the 
white collar program, et cetera, and we have Madeline and 
Terri, who are working primarily on the Federal Wage 
System, and now Mike Eicher jumped in, and he works the 
recorder. 
 
I was at one point the Recording Secretary for 
PRAC.  We used to have -- actually, I was sitting at the 
front of the table taking the notes, and, boy, you ought to 
see the comments we had about notes during those days. 

[Laughter.] 
MR. MIKOWICZ:  And maybe that's why they went to 

 
recordings.  I don't know.  No, I think there were other 
reasons. 
 
I left OPM for a while and came back when the 
Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act was enacted.  It 
was passed in 1990, and PRAC was still in swing, and here I 
am today. 

 

 
6 

I think this is an organization that has had 

Jacque, I appreciate you standing up to the TV 

 
remarkable success.  I know that both sides have not always 
gotten everything they wanted, but what has impressed me is 
the willingness to work together.  We see that in the 
working groups.  We see it in phone calls, e-mails, and 
meetings that we have, and I think that is a tribute to all 
the people in Management and Labor sitting at the table. 
 
Chairman Sheldon Friedman, I have to thank you 
for really digging into the issues and for your leadership. 
 
monitors defending federal employees when many times we on 
the federal side can't do that. 
 
So a special thanks to the OPM team, and speaking 
about the future, we are in the process of getting all the 
papers and clearance.  Brenda Roberts here at OPM, who did 
work at DoD years ago, will take over my place as the 
Designated Federal Officer, and Jeanne Jacobson will be her 
alternate.  And the reason I mention that is because the 
next meeting, I will be unable to attend, I will be 
deployed for a national COOP exercise.  I won't be here, 
and Brenda also is going to COOP, so Jeanne will be here, 
so thank you. 

 

 
7

People may not know it, but Jerry is an avid 

I guess he's going to get to do a bit more of that 

[Applause.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you, again, Jerry. 

 
 
It's been a pleasure to work with you. 
 
hiker. 
now. 
 
 
say that Terri Wallace, who has been working with our 
Committee for a long time, is going to be away for a while 
on leave.  People can take one look at her and guess what 
the nature of the leave is. 
 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  Yes. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And I guess we should also 

MS. WALLACE:  You better not guess wrong. 

[Laughter.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So one other quick 


 
announcement.  Last meeting, we approved our annual report 
for 2012, and you have a copy of the final in your packets. 
 
Any other announcements? 
 
MR. RUMBLE:  Mr. Chairman? 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yes, sir. 
 
MR. RUMBLE:  In the scheme of things of people 
not being here anymore, Hank Rovan, our chief of the NAF 



 

 
8 

He did not opt to come today to say anything, but 

side of Wage, is retiring, and it is my understanding that 
he's been involved in this about as long as Mr. Mikowicz, 
since the late '70s. 
 
he's leaving the early part of next month. 
 
since he's not here? 
 

MR. ALLEN:  Does this mean we can talk about him, 

MR. RUMBLE:  I know.  It's amazing, Jacque, that 

MR. RUMBLE:  We are not quite as fast within DoD 

MR. RUMBLE:  Certainly. 
[Laughter.] 
MR. RUMBLE:  Who's taking notes? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Has his successor been 

 
 
designated? 
 
on doing that, so I don't believe that anybody --
 
hiring freeze at DoD. 
 
people keep moving.  It's kind of like cannibalization. 
You move from one department to another department doing 
the same job, people moving around. 
 
 

Jim, has anybody --
MR. BRADY:  I have nothing to share on that at 

MS. SIMON:  Blind sequestration.  There is a 

 

 
9 

MR. RUMBLE:  I didn't think so. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, it's been a 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, is there agreement to 

Any other announcements? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, let's move on to 

this time.  Thank you. 
 
 
pleasure to work with Hank, as well. 
 
 
 
reviewing the transcript from our last meeting.  Are there 
any other changes to the transcript, beyond those people 
have already sent in? 
 
 
adopt the transcript of our last meeting? 
 
 
transcript is adopted. 
 
business item that people wish to discuss today? 
 
just released the new updates for MSA definitions based on 
the latest Census, which also would give us new commuting 
data, and so, therefore, some of the pending items in old 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing no objection, the 

That brings up old business.  Is there any old 

Mark has brought to my attention that OMB has 

 

 
10 

Apart from that, is there any -- so I suggest we 

business that relate to definitions of wage areas might 
actually be out of date, so we may want to hold on to those 
until we get the latest word. 
 
let those sit until we hear back on that, but apart from 
that, is there any other old business item that people want 
to bring up this morning? 
 
 
 
The first one, 583-MANAGEMENT-1, Definition of Broward 
County, Florida, to a Nonappropriated Fund Wage Area. 
 
 
Nonappropriated Fund wage area redefinitions at this 
meeting, two new business items.  So I would deem these to 
be the Hank Rovan memorial redefinitions. 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I guess that's a no. 
Which brings us to new business with two items. 

Mark, would you summarize that for us, please? 
MR. ALLEN:  Sure.  We actually have two 

[Laughter.] 
MR. ALLEN:  First one is 583-MANAGEMENT-1, the 

 
definition of Broward County, Florida. 
 
It's fairly simple.  The maps at Attachment 1 
show that Broward County is to the north of Miami-Dade 

 

 
11 

County, and just to the south is Palm Beach County.  Miami-
Dade is a survey county.  Palm Beach is an area of 
application, and Broward County is wedged right in between 
those.  There are three employees with the Department of 
Veterans Affairs who should be assigned to an appropriate 
wage schedule, and when we look at the regulatory criteria 
analysis on page 2 of the document, you see that they all 
understandably point to Miami-Dade as being the appropriate 
wage area definition.  This would be the definition of 
Broward County to the area of application of the Miami-Dade 
wage area. 
 
 
 
 
this? 
 
 
we have adopted 583-MANAGEMENT-1.  Thank you. 
 
summarize that one for us, Mark. 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you, Mark. 
Are there any questions or discussion? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there consensus to adopt 

MR. ALLEN:  This is a little bit different than 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So there being a consensus, 

That brings up 583-MANAGEMENT-2.  Please 

 

 
12 

As you can see on the maps in your packet, 

other Nonappropriated Fund wage area redefinitions that 
we've seen recently.  This is actually one where we're not 
redefining a county to another wage area.  We are removing 
counties where there are currently no NAF employees or 
there will soon be none left because of base closures and 
realignments. 
 
Enclosure 1, the current Clayton-Cobb-Fulton, Georgia, 
Nonappropriated Fund Area consists of three survey 
counties, Fulton, Cobb, and Clayton, and three area of 
application counties, Bartow, DeKalb, and Clarke. 
 
What we are recommending is on the next map, that 
that wage area be shrunk down to have a survey area of Cobb 
County only, and that the only two areas of application 
counties be Bartow and DeKalb Counties. 
 
So, in a way, this is kind of like abolishing a 
wage area and then starting it over again.  When this wage 
area would be redefined, the next wage schedule for Cobb 
would be an unrestricted wage schedule, not subject to a 
pay cap. 
 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any questions or discussion? 
[No audible response.] 

 

 
13 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there consensus to do 

MR. ALLEN:  The wage survey itself would be less 

MR. ALLEN:  That's correct. 
MR. LANDIS:  Okay.  What's the -- I guess there's 

 
this, or does Labor need to talk about it? 
 
MR. LANDIS:  I think from what I'm reading here 
is that the facilities or whatever that had employees in 
Clayton and Fulton, they are no longer there? 
 
 
savings then for not having to deal with those counties, 
since there's no longer any facilities there as opposed to 
just dealing with Cobb on its own? 
 
expensive to conduct since there would be fewer data 
collectors.  The same type of establishments would be 
covered.  The covered survey area is covering most of the 
City of Atlanta, and I believe it would be shrunk down to 
just the northwestern suburbs around Atlanta.  It's 
impossible to predict what the wage schedule would actually 
look like at this time.  The next survey done there will be 
done in only one county. 
 
are a little different than -- actually, they are quite a 
bit different than Appropriated Fund wage areas in that the 

I should say that Nonappropriated Fund wage areas 

 

 
14 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Where is immediate locality 

law provides that they can only be established where there 
are NAF employees; whereas, with the Appropriated Fund wage 
area we define every county as part of a wage area. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Just for my own education, 
does the regulation on that, that the wage area shall not 
extend beyond the immediate locality, actually state that 
the immediate locality must be a county? Is that what you 
are referring to, Mark? 
 
 
defined? 
 
law, 85 USC 5343, and the locality is defined by OPM 
regulation on a county basis. 
 
education on that, because I'm not quite -- it sounds 
circular to me.  Locality is defined somewhere else as a 
county? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  Well, OPM has to implement laws, and 
OPM does that through regulation, and there's a listing in 
one of the appendices to Title 5, Code of Federal 
Regulations, that identifies each wage area for 

MR. ALLEN:  That is -- it's actually citing the 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  I may need a sidebar 

 

 
15 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  It seems to me this is a 

MR. LANDIS:  Which county is Atlanta in?  I'm not 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I think Fulton. 
MR. LANDIS:  We know that Atlanta is in Fulton? 
MR. ALLEN:  Yeah.  Fulton is downtown Atlanta. 

Nonappropriated Fund employees by county. 
 
metropolitan area, the Atlanta area.  You are taking one 
county out of the metropolitan area and saying that's going 
to be the locality. 
 
familiar. 
 
 
 
Counties in Georgia tend to be relatively small 
geographically --
 
 
partially in Fulton and partially in DeKalb. 
 
in Atlanta proper in DeKalb. 
 
MR. PHELPS:  Yeah. 
 
MR. LANDIS:  Okay.  So this isn't like what I'm 
used to where a county contains a town. 
 
 

MR. PHELPS:  No. 
MR. LANDIS:  This town could stretch through 

MR. LANDIS:  Okay.  So instead of a county --
MR. PHELPS:  I think actually Atlanta is 

MS. SIMON:  DeKalb.  I'm sure that you are still 

 

 
16 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Do we have an answer to that 

MR. ALLEN:  The wage schedule would reflect the 

other counties.  I'm just curious if the land was fully 
within Fulton if that would -- removing Fulton County from 
this would then later on drive the surveys to come up with 
lower wage scales because of that.  I'm not sure. 
 
question? 
 
prevailing wage levels around Marietta and Cobb County. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So is there any light that 
can be shed on Steve's question? 
 
 
on the -- well, you ask it again. 
 
familiar with the area that well, but I know Atlanta is a 
high-priced living area.  So I ask if losing those two 
counties and then doing a future wage survey in only Cobb 
County would cause the overall wages to decrease.  People 
are already there in Cobb, in the current wage schedule, 
and if the proposal just maintains Cobb, if the employees 
in that wage area would then be put on a lower wage pay 
scale. 

MR. ALLEN:  What was the question? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  He's asking what's the impact 

MR. LANDIS:  I was just wondering.  I'm not 

 

 
17 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Can you shed some light on 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  You haven't done the 

MR. BRADY:  There's not really a good way of 

MR. BRADY:  No.  We are unable to shed light, 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So what's your pleasure? 
MS. SIMON:  Well, we do have data from that one 

 
that, Jim? 
 
because we've never surveyed this Cobb County from a 
universe point of view.  We've always had data from the 
other two counties, as well.  So determining what a survey 
in the one county would actually look like is fairly 
difficult. 
 
 
county. 
 
counties, but we don't really have data that was based on 
one county as an entire survey. 
 
calculation, I think is what you’re saying, right?  You've 
never pulled out the data from that county? 
 
doing it because it's been part of a large sample survey, 
in which Atlanta, you know, has some domination.  So 
actually surveying the county by itself would be a much 
different survey than the survey that includes the 

MR. BRADY:  We have it as a mix of the three 

 

 
18 

MR. PHELPS:  I wouldn't imagine as far as the 

metropolitan area of Atlanta. 
 
cost Steve was talking about or Mark was talking about that 
it would be that much, since you have the three counties 
right there together, that your cost would be that 
prohibitive to continue with the three -- or any difference 
really from the one to the three.  Those activities right 
there, you're only talking probably 20, 25 miles to the 
furthest point in the third county.  I would imagine that 
you probably have people who commute regularly from the 
other two counties into there to work if that's where your 
most activity is at this point. 
 
a concern about the survey resources.  It's that OPM 
regulations and the law require -- together they require 
defining the wage area by county for NAF purposes, and 
since there would be no NAF employees in two of the current 
survey area counties, it would not be an accurate 
reflection to those employees just in Cobb County to have 
their pay level set based on two other counties where there 
aren't any NAF employees. 
 

MR. ALLEN:  The thing driving this is not really 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is this something we can get 

 

 
19 

MR. ALLEN:  It would be in Part 532.  It's 

MR. LANDIS:  Is that what you have written in the 

MS. SUSZCZYK:  Are you able to point us today to 

MR. ALLEN:  No, that's a cite from the law. 
MR. LANDIS:  That's different?  Okay. 
MR. ALLEN:  Here it is.  Regulatory, 5 CFR 

consensus on today or does it need further study?  Are 
there questions that the Labor side feels it needs answers 
to, or where are we on this one? 
 
where we can find the definition of localities? 
 
Appendix A to subpart B or something like that. 
 
report here, 5 USC 5343? 
 
 
 
Appendix C, subpart D.  That's where it lists the 
Nonappropriated Fund Areas by county. 
 
proposed to change, right? 
 
feature.  It’s OPM's implementation of the statute. 
 
 
there's consensus to adopt 583-MANAGEMENT-2. 
 

MS. SIMON:  We're okay with it. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  All right.  Then 

Is there any other new business not on the 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right.  That's what is being 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes.  Using counties is a system-wide 

 

 
20 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, is there any 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  There's stuff going on in 

The report we prepared last year, I know I have 

agenda? 
 
 
objection to adjourning? 
 
MR. LANDIS:  I probably should have brought this 
up when we were discussing old business, but I was looking 
at something else. 
 
brought this up many times before.  I just wondered if 
there was any news on that.  I know that as far as I 
understand, the pay freeze is set to expire at the end of 
this month.  Has that been changed? 
 
Congress that would extend it perhaps.  We don't know for 
sure. 
 
 
the House both have proposals to have legislation passed in 
the houses that would extend the pay freeze to the end of 
2013.  I believe there was also a presidential statement 
that he would not veto that because that is part of a 
larger package, and so I think that people mostly think the 

Jerry, can you elaborate? 
MR. MIKOWICZ:  From all we know, the Senate and 

 

 
21 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  I don't know how it's packaged, so 

MR. LANDIS:  All right.  So as far as we know, 

MR. LANDIS:  Is that part of the H.R. 933 that 

probability is that there will be a pay freeze for the rest 
of the year, but as we all know, until it happens, it 
doesn't happen.  So we'll have to wait to see events over 
the next few days. 
 
they've been discussing, or is this something -- a few 
other --
 
I can't answer that. 
 
then it is still in limbo until that's --
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I don't have any information 
other than that.  "Limbo" would be as good a word as any, 
I'd say.  Would you say? 
 
 
 
 
adjourning? 
 
[No audible response.] 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing no objection, we're 
adjourned.  See you all next month.  Thank you very much. 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  Agree. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Anything else? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So any objection to 

