1 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

599th FPRAC 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

Thursday, November 20, 2014 

Room 5526  

Office of Personnel Management  

Washington, D.C. 20415 

ATTENDANCE: 
Members/Alternates: 

Management Members: 
Mark Allen, OPM 
Jim Davey, DoD 
David Pedersen, Navy 
Gary Buck, Army 
Stephanie Boyd, VA 
Labor Members: 
Bill Fenaughty, MTD 
Jacque Simon, AFGE 
Candace Archer, AFGE 
Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE 
Steven Landis, ACT 

Staff Specialists and Visitors: 

Brenda Roberts, Designated Federal Officer, OPM 
Madeline Gonzalez, OPM 
Robbins Byrne, OPM 
Jim Brady, DoD 
Christopher Lynch, DoD 
Luis Lynch, Air Force 
Arleen Romba, VA (via phone) 
Dennis Phelps, MTD 
Johnny Kiser, Army COE (via phone) 
Matt Pierce, Army COE (via phone) 
Carl Upchurch, Army COE (via phone) 

Recording Secretaries: 
Mike Eicher, OPM 
[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.] 

 

C O N T E N T S 

2 

Page 

I. 

Opening/Announcements 
•  Introductions.....................................4 
•  Announcements.....................................7
 

−  FPRAC's FY 2014 Federal Advisory Committee 
Act(FACA) Report, 599-OC-1 
−  2014 Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey Results: 
Report by Demographics FWS Responses, 599-OC-2 
−  Overview of Federal Wage System Employment, 
599-OPM-1 

Review of the Minutes of 598th Meeting...............9
 
Old Business........................................10
 
a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2 

−  2013 Update to Review of Lee County, VA, 586-

II. 
III. 

 

MGT-1 

b. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 
Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2 
−  2013 Update to Definition of South 

Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI Metropolitan Statistical 
Area, 586-MGT-2 
c. Letter from the American Federation of Government 
Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC 
review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA, 
from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA, wage area to 
the New York, NY, wage area, 564-AFGE-1 
Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1 
−  2013 Update to Definition of 
Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC Metropolitan 
Statistical Area, 588-MGT-1 

d. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC 

e. Letter from the American Federation of Government 
Employees, dated August 18, 2014, requesting FPRAC 
Reexamine the definition of Grenada and Yalobusha 
Counties, MS, 597-AFGE-1 

C O N T E N T S 

3 

Page 
New Business........................................10 
a. Review of Grenada and Yalobusha Counties, 

Mississippi, 599-MGT-1 
−  Phone Participation by Johnny Kiser, Chief, 

Project Resources Management Branch, Operations 
Division, Vicksburg District of the Mississippi 
Valley Division, U.S. Army Corps Of Engineers 
−  Questions for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
Regarding the Review of Grenada and Yalobusha 
Counties, 599-AFGE-2 
b. Counties Redefined/Not Redefined or Split Due to 

Organizational Relationships among Closely Related 
or Closely Located Federal Activities (1999-2014), 
599-OPM-2 
c. Letter from the American Federation of Government 
Employees, dated November 3, 2014, Requesting FPRAC 
Review Recent Wage Data Collected in the North 
Dakota Survey Area, 599-AFGE-1 
from the Philadelphia, PA, Wage Area to the New 
York, NY, Wage Area, 599-ACT-1 

d. Proposal to move Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst 

IV. 

 

4 

P R O C E E D I N G 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Good morning, everyone, and welcome 

to our 599th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory 
Committee. My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chair of the Committee. 

As usual, why don't we go around and introduce 

ourselves. Mark, can you start for us today? 

MR. ALLEN: Mark Allen with OPM. 

MR. DAVEY: Jim Davey with DoD. 

MR. PEDERSEN: David Pedersen with Navy. 

MR. BUCK: Gary Buck with Army. 

MS. BOYD: Stephanie Boyd with VA. 

MR. FENAUGHTY: Bill Fenaughty, MTD and NFFE. 

MS. ARCHER: Candace Archer, AFGE. 

MS. SIMON: Jacque Simon, AFGE. 

MS. SUSZCZYK: Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE. 

MR. LANDIS: Steve Landis, ACT. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And if other folks in the room 

could please introduce themselves, I'd appreciate it. 

MR. (Luis) LYNCH: Luis Lynch, Air Force. 

MR. BRADY: Jim Brady, DoD. 

MR. (Christopher) LYNCH: Christopher Lynch, DoD. 

 

5 

MS. GONZALEZ: Madeline Gonzalez, OPM. 

MR. BYRNE: Robbins Byrne, OPM. 

MR. EICHER: Mike Eicher, OPM. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Can we ask the folks on the phone 

to please introduce themselves? 

MR. KISER: Sure. You've got Johnny Kiser, Chief of 

Project Resources Management Branch with the Vicksburg District. 

MR. PIERCE: Matt Peirce and Carl Upchurch with the 

Vicksburg District, Mississippi Project Office. 

MS. ROMBA: Good morning. This is Arlene Romba, the 

second alternate for VA. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay, thank you. 

So as everybody can see, we're at the opposite end of 

the room today for technical reasons. I won't belabor the 
reasons, but hopefully, we'll be back to normal very soon. The 
recording equipment still is not installed in this room. 
Hopefully, by the next meeting, although -- do we have any 
update on the recording equipment? 

MS. GONZALEZ: No, nothing new. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: No, all right. We've been saying 
for a while, we hope we’ll have it for the next meeting, so I 
hate to say that yet again. 

 

6 

I would like to let people know that Terri Wallace, 
who is usually here at our meetings, is off on maternity leave 
and doing well. 

Anything you'd like to add, Madeline, to that? 

MS. GONZALEZ: She had a baby girl on the 13th, last 

Thursday, and everybody is doing very well. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. 

MS. SIMON: What's the baby's name? 

MS. GONZALEZ: Caroline, I think. 

[Laughter.] 

MS. GONZALEZ: Last I heard, it was going to be 

Caroline. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I know we always finish by noon. 

Today, we must because the Director -- it's her room, she needs 
it, so I will just let people know that. 

Also, the working group meeting which we normally have 

in the Small Pendleton Room is going to be in here because the 
Director needs the Pendleton Room today too. 

If we need a caucus today, we have a special procedure 
for that as well. Why don't we see if we have one before we tell 
you about it? 

 

7 

I would like to mention one more thing. We do have 

Committee rules that require us to submit any New Business items 
a week in advance. We have been a little flexible on that 
lately. I would appreciate it if people could try to adhere to 
that going forward. 

So announcements. I have circulated a copy of the 

FPRAC Fiscal Year 2014 report that is required under the Federal 
Advisory Committee Act. For your information, this is the report 
that goes to the GSA. There is nothing exceptional in it, just 
for your information. Any questions, let us know. 

I thought people would be interested in a couple of 
the tables from the latest Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey 
dealing with pay satisfaction where you can compare FWS workers 
with other Federal employees on that dimension, and also there 
is a question about whether people think that pay raises are 
determined fairly and –yes? 

MS. SIMON: Why is there a question on this as if that 
is a matter of opinion or engagement? Why are employees asked if 
pay raises depend on how well employees perform their jobs? I 
mean, we have a pay system, and the pay raises depend on 
whatever Congress does and/or the surveys recommend plus step 
increases based on performance. Those are facts. They aren't 
opinions. And it's kind of a measurement of the ignorance or 

 

8 

understanding of the Federal workforce, of their pay system, 
rather than a measure of their engagement. It's so ridiculous. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Or you could even say that explains 

why people answer that question the way they do. 

MS. SIMON: I mean, if people think it does depend on 
those things, it shows a very partial understand of their pay 
system. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes. I think that's a good point. 

From my standpoint, the other question is more important. 

MS. SIMON: It's so ridiculous to ask that question. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Well, you know what, you should 

send that −− 

MS. SIMON: They've been asking it for years. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes. It's the same question every 

year. It's one of the few that’s pay-related where there's a 
breakout for FWS, so that's the reason I circulated it. But I 
agree with you. 

But I should also add that it might be possible for us 

to request more breakouts if we want to do that. We don't know 
for sure. So, for example, if people are curious about FWS pay 
satisfaction by agency, it's possible we can request that. I'm 
not promising, but we might be able to. Or if, for example, the 

 

9 

same way that they now present pay grades for GS in high, 
medium, and low groups, we could get that for FWS too. Those are 
examples of things we could ask for and perhaps get. 

Also, you have an overview of the Federal Wage System 

employment with breakouts by occupation and agency. Just an 
update. I think the last time we presented these data to the 
members of the Committee was 2010. If this is something that 
people are interested in, we might be able to extend and expand 
a bit, not on a quick timetable. If it's useful data, we may be 
able to get you some more of it. 

Any questions about any of that? 

Oh, we have a couple of newcomers to our meeting. I'd 
appreciate if they would please introduce themselves. Thank you. 

MS. ROBERTS: Brenda Roberts, Designated Federal 

Officer. 

MR. PHELPS: Dennis Phelps, the Metal Trades 

Department. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you. Thank you to both of you 

as well for attending. 

So next up is the review and approval of the minutes 

from our last month's meetings. Are there any changes that 
people have beyond those we've already heard about from you? 

 

10 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: If not, is there anyone who 

dissents from approval of the transcript from the last meeting? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Hearing no disagreement, the 

transcript is adopted. Thank you. 

That brings up Old Business. So the last item (e) 

relates to a New Business item, which is also the one for which 
we have our guests on the phone from Army Corps of Engineers. 
Let me just quickly ask if there is anything on (a) through (d). 
I think if there is, I'd ask that we hold it until after the 
discussion of (e), so that our guests don't need to spend more 
time than necessary. So can we move to (e) on Old Business? 

What I suggest is we group that with (a) and (b) under 
New Business. They are all tied together. We've got an incoming 
letter from AFGE regarding the lake employees of Army Corps of 
Engineers in these two counties in the Northern Mississippi wage 
area. We have an analysis of the application of the regulatory 
criteria to those counties done by OPM staff, and we also have a 
history of FPRAC recommendations regarding counties or portions 
of counties where our decisions were made based on the closely 
related or closely located nature of the Federal activities that 
were affected. 

 

11 

So let's group those together, and I will present a 

quick overview before I ask Mark to summarize the document that 
OPM staff prepared. 

This has been an issue that has recurred a number of 
times. We heard from folks at the Northern Mississippi lakes in 
2010 and from their thenMember of Congress. Now we’ve heard 
again from their Member of Congress, and basically, we've got 
four lakes that are in very close geographic proximity, all 
administered out of one office, and the workers there feel that 
there is an awful lot of interchange between them or assignment 
of workers between them −− I don't know how frequently, we need 
to find that out −− to work at a lake different from their normal 
duty station where they end up working alongside somebody, 
getting paid differently from them, even though they are doing 
exactly the same work, so we hear. 

To address this issue, it seems to me there are three 
basic approaches we could take as a Committee. Maybe there are 
others, but the three that have occurred to me are, first of 
all, is this still a viable wage area? It's a rather sparsely 
populated one in terms of FWS employment. However, DoD assures 
us that the wage area is viable in terms of survey adequacy, and 
there is good local participation in the survey. So the survey 

 

12 

adequacy question from the DoD standpoint and OPM staff 
standpoint is that it's an adequate survey. 

Application of regulatory criteria, we have a new 

report on that. 

And then the third potential issue, in view of the 

activity being really very closely related and closely located, 
is whether there some basis for considering the four lakes as a 
single activity. 

And I wonder if it would make sense, since we have the 

folks from Army Corps of Engineers on the phone, to jump 
directly into that. We did receive some questions ahead of time 
from AFGE pertaining to that. I'm happy to proceed either way. 
We can talk about the application of regulatory criteria first. 

MR. ALLEN: Mr. Chairman, I can just very briefly go 

over 599-MGT-1. There's not really much new information in there 
since we reviewed this wage area not too long ago. 

Basically, what we have here is an update to a 

document that this Committee considered a few years ago and by 
consensus recommended just a couple of changes in how the wage 
area be defined. 

The two counties that are currently under 

consideration for whether they should remain in the Northern 
Mississippi wage area are Grenada and Yalobusha Counties, and 

 

13 

the reason for that is because they contain two lake projects, 
and the employees who work at those lake projects, I believe 
there are 10 in total, have expressed concerns over the years. 
This is something that's gone back for decades about why the 
lakes under the lake project system in the area are divided 
between two separate wage areas, Memphis and -- it used to be 
the Columbus-Aberdeen wage area, and now it's the Northern 
Mississippi wage area. 

About the only new information we have here is that 

we've updated the employment numbers, and we find that there are 
5 Army Corps of Engineers' employees and 54 Army National Guard 
employees and 3 Department of the Interior employees in Grenada 
County, and there are 5 Army Corps of Engineers' employees and 2 
Department of Agriculture employees in Yalobusha County. 

We did not have access to updated commuting patterns 

information the last time we did this review, so those commuting 
patterns have been updated, but just by themselves they would 
not lead to a different conclusion than we reached when we did 
this review a few years ago. 

So, basically, at this point, Management’s 

recommendation is for no change under the regulatory criteria 
for defining wage areas for either Grenada or Yalobusha 
Counties. 

 

14 

MS. ARCHER: I'm sorry. I may have missed it. Can you 
clarify that issue about the commuting patterns? You have put 
new information in here, or this is the same information as from 
2010? 

MR. ALLEN: In 2010, we would not have had commuting 

pattern information from the 2010 Census, so we've got some new 
commuting pattern information in here. But it's not really 
surprising that we wouldn't see changes because the counties 
we're talking about are 80 to 100 miles away from either Memphis 
or Columbus, Mississippi. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Mark, can you also summarize pages 

3 and 4? You have a section there on the history of the pay 
practice for FWS employees at Army Corps of Engineers reservoir 
projects. Apparently, earlier on there was an exception for a 
couple of the administrative areas within the lake system, but 
then that was abolished by FPRAC in 1976. So it appears there is 
some precedent for considering a group of lakes as a single 
installation for pay purposes. So that history is in the report. 

Anything you want to add to that? 

MR. ALLEN: No, that's something that was discussed 

many years ago. I'm not sure at this point. We'll have to hear 
from the Army Corps of Engineers' staff people about their 

 

15 

perception of how the Federal Wage System policies are working 
in their particular circumstance. 

MS. ARCHER: I have actually one question tied to that. 

It seems like there has been a recent -- a construction of the 
headquarters facility. Was that after 1976? Do you know? I mean, 
it seems like the headquarters has been consolidated into a more 
impressive -- 

MR. ALLEN: I can't speak to that with authority, but 
it's my understanding, based on what we heard last time when we 
went through this review, that the headquarters for all of the 
lakes -- it's one lake project system -- was established at the 
lake that was in the county that we redefined to the Memphis 
wage area during the last review. 

MS. ARCHER: Yeah. 

MR. ALLEN: So what we don't know is whether the 
employees at all of the lakes actually report out of that 
project office or whether their official duty stations are 
appropriately assigned to each of the four lakes independently. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: So how would people like to 

proceed? My thought is since we have Mr. Kiser on the phone, we 
ought to have a discussion with him and at least begin to get 
the information that we need. Does that seem reasonable? And 

 

16 

then we don't have to tie him up longer than necessary at our 
meeting. 

Mr. Kiser, are you there? 

MR. KISER (via phone): Yes, sir. I'm here. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Would you be able to give us a very 
brief overview? I'll just suggest this might be a good starting 
point of the four lake discussion. The number of FWS employees, 
Mark had indicated there are five each at the two lakes in the 
Northern Mississippi wage area, and a little bit about what work 
they do, how much interchange there is between the lakes for 
those workers. 

And I believe you have an actual list of more specific 

questions. Did you receive that list? 

MR. KISER (via phone): Yes, sir, we did receive the 
list, and on the phone also, we have Matt Pierce, who is the 
operations project manager, and Carl Upchurch who is the deputy, 
so they can help me fill in anything we miss here. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: The floor is yours, if you care to 

proceed. 

MR. KISER (via phone): Okay. Yes, sir. 

Well, in Arkabutla and Sardis, we currently have 10 
field positions. Those are in the Memphis wage area. We have 4 

 

17 

vacant positions that we do plan to fill down the road, so there 
will be 14 total on those two lakes. 

Then in Enid and Grenada, which are in the Northern 
Mississippi wage area, we have 10 field positions, and also we 
have 4 vacant positions. So they're essentially equal, and under 
that structure, we have very similar positions. We have 
equipment operators, maintenance mechanics, electricians, at all 
of those projects. So, essentially, all of those guys are doing 
the same work. 

All of the positions are currently WG-10 positions, 
with the exception of -- we have one wage leader, and we also 
have one WS-11 wage supervisor. 

Now, we went through kind of an organizational 
readjustment a couple of years ago, and once those people 
retire, then they will all be at the WG-10 level, all of our 
wage grade will be. 

So one thing that we've added since 2010 is about 

three maintenance mechanic positions at each lake. We did some 
reassignments and made some changes, and just from the 
standpoint of those positions, they're a lot more versatile, and 
they're able to do more than one function. 

One of the questions that you guys had was where do 

they -- where is the work orders handed out. So if you're 

 

18 

familiar with that area, the Sardis project office is at Sardis, 
Mississippi, and essentially, what it is, the project office 
oversees the operation of the four North Mississippi reservoirs. 
So for the sake of consistency, we have that oversight before it 
comes into my office. 

And we have a similar structure across the Vicksburg 
District. In Arkansas, it's very similar where a project office 
oversees three lakes. 

As far as where the work orders are handed out, it is 
at the local level. It's at each lake. The wage grade personnel 
answer directly to the facility manager, who is their first-line 
supervisor, and so the work is handed out at that level. 
However, you do have that oversight of consistency and structure 
to keep in mind at the Sardis project office level. 

In the past, years ago, we have had those -- you know, 

since this is considered a project office, we do use those 
employees to assist in other projects. So what you can have is 
cross-pollination, if you will, of people at Grenada or Enid, 
working at Sardis or Arkabutla or even vice versa. 

In the past, that has created issues because those 

people work side by side doing the same job. It creates 
animosity, if you will, amongst the employees, and it creates 
morale problems. So, really, in the past 3 years, other than 

 

19 

having to cover for OCO deployment, we have limited that just 
due to that fact. 

MS. ARCHER: Can you explain what you mean by limited? 

It doesn't exist at all now, or it's just less frequent? 

MR. KISER (via phone): It's very infrequent, is what 
it is. So to really answer your question, from 2011 to 2014, we 
have only utilized two water treatment operators from Sardis, 
from the higher wage area, to actually cover for an OCO 
deployment at Enid, which is in the lower wage area. However, 
you know, we've had a number of projects we could have used them 
on, but we've just -- we've used our O&M contractor, or we've 
used people from the same wage area, so we wouldn't have that 
conflict. 

MS. SIMON: Thank you, sir. You have just answered the 

question that has been on my mind. There have been many 
instances where the least costly and most efficient management 
decision would be to utilize workers from both of these 
different wage areas on the same job, but you haven't done so 
because the wage disparity creates such animosity that the most 
efficient decision becomes an inefficient decision because of 
conflict over the wage disparity. 

MR. KISER (via phone): That's correct. 

MR. ALLEN: This is Mark Allen. 

 

20 

Speaking from the local level, from your perspective, 

do you think it makes sense to have all four lake project 
employees -- all four lakes under the same wage schedule? Would 
that be more efficient for your purposes of trying to manage 
your workforce locally? 

MR. KISER (via phone): It certainly would be more 

efficient. It would certainly also give us the opportunity to 
utilize those employees across the board, if you will, versus 
whereas now we have to use them in more confined areas within 
their wage areas, because it does create the animosity, the hard 
feelings. 

And also we have to answer or we have to try to 

answer, management does, the questions of why is he getting paid 
$3 more per hour versus what I'm getting paid, so -- 

MS. SIMON: Another question. When you use contractors, 

I am not asking about the wage received by the contractor, but 
the cost to the agency of using a contractor rather than your 
own Army Corps employees. Is that -- the overall cost, is that 
more expensive? 

MR. KISER (via phone): Well, I may have to ask the 

other guys there, but I'll tell you -- that's on the line with 
me, but my thought is -- see, we have a big O&M contract that's 
a cost-plus-type contract -- 

 

21 

MS. SIMON: Uh-huh. 

MR. KISER (via phone): -- at all four of the four 

Mississippi lakes, and so I would assume that the cost is not a 
lot more, but I'm going to ask Matt or Carl if they'll jump in 
here. 

MR. PIERCE (via phone): This is Matt. 

I'm going to say where your cost increase is, is 

you're already paying these wage grade employees to work at the 
lake, and you're basically paying somebody else to come in and 
do a job where we could pull the other folks off, move them to 
the big project, and get it done. So, essentially, in my mind, 
you're almost paying double. You're paying for the contractor, 
and you're still paying for your wage grade employees to do 
other stuff. 

MR. UPCHURCH (via phone): This is Carl Upchurch. 

And what you get with these wage grade positions are 
the skill levels, and I'm not sure that an O&M contractor has 
that level of skills for these particular jobs. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Just for background, could you 

mention the geographic distance between the four lakes, 
proceeding north to south, how far they are apart from each 
other, roughly? 

 

22 

MR. ALLEN: I think it's about 80 miles from north to 

south. 

MR. KISER (via phone): Okay. From Sardis -- we're 
going to do everything from Sardis, from the project office. 
Sardis north to Arkabutla is probably 40 to 50 miles. Enid is 
about 15 to 20 miles, and Grenada is probably 35 to 40 miles. 
And those are rough estimates. We can get you all exact 
distances, if needed. 

MS. ARCHER: It sounds like from top to bottom, around 
80 miles? Well, actually, I guess -- I don't know where Grenada 
or Enid is. It might not be laid out north to south. 

MR. ALLEN: Grenada is the southernmost. 

MS. ARCHER: Okay. 

MR. KISER (via phone): It is. They're pretty much laid 

out north to south, Arkabutla being the northern one, and 
they're all situated either east or west of I-55. And they're 
just -- you know, they're real close to the Interstate. So from 
north to south, Arkabutla, Sardis, Enid, and Grenada is the most 
southern. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Do we have any other questions for 

Mr. Kiser or his colleagues? 

MR. DAVEY: This is Jim Davey from DoD. 

 

23 

So far, I've heard that the reason that you don't 

interchange employees is a morale issue between the employees. 
Are there other reasons besides that? 

MR. KISER (via phone): Not that I'm aware of. 

Matt, do you have anything to add on that? 

MR. PIERCE (via phone): No. That's the biggest issue, 
is the morale and conflicts that arise with folks working side 
by side with different wage rates. 

MR. DAVEY: Do you think that that's uncommon, that 
people would go TDY from one city to another, and they'd have 
folks side by side with different wages? I would think that 
would be common. I could go to Mississippi, and I'd have a 
different wage while I was working there than the people there. 

MR. KISER (via phone): Well, the only difference I 

would see is knowing that you are getting a different rate, you 
know -- it's a temporary assignment, but it does create issues. 
There's no doubt. I mean, we've got a proven track record that 
it creates issues. 

MR. DAVEY: How long did the assignments last when you 

were doing them? Was it 2 days or a month? 

MR. KISER (via phone): Some of them, we may -- in the 

past, prior to 2011, we may have had up to a month, you know, 

 

24 

especially when we've got some big dirt-moving projects going 
on. 

MR. DAVEY: Do you happen to know -- other employees 
are listed as Army National Guard employees in Grenada County. 
Do you happen to know where their location would be in relation 
to the lake employees that we're talking about? 

MR. KISER (via phone): They're at Camp McCain, which 
is about 3 miles south of Grenada, and it's probably, roughly 6 
miles from the field office at Grenada Lake. 

MR. DAVEY: So they're pretty much collocated, for all 

intents and purposes? 

MR. KISER (via phone): Yeah. 

MR. DAVEY: Okay. 

MR. ALLEN: I have kind of a theoretical idea. I'm not 

sure how this might be received by anybody, but one of the 
things that I was thinking about when we made a recommendation a 
few years ago to move one of the lakes that had the lake project 
office attached to it into the Memphis wage area was that that 
could theoretically be determined to be the official duty 
station for all of the lakes. Is there really an obstacle to 
doing that for all of the four lakes? Is the only way to make 
all four lakes under the Memphis wage area possible by 

 

25 

redefining the remaining two lakes in the Northern Mississippi 
wage area to the Memphis wage area? 

MR. KISER (via phone): Well, the latter one would be 
better for us because if we make -- if we take -- and I'm just 
thinking out loud here, but what would be required to do the 
prior is take -- move the duty stations, essentially, and so we 
would have the guys from Enid and Grenada duty station being 
Sardis. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Are you saying that's a problem? 

Could you just elaborate a little bit on that? 

MR. KISER (via phone): Well, I'm trying to think 

through how it would work, but it would look a little bit odd to 
me if we made their duty station, which becomes their reporting 
station, Sardis and then had them report to Enid and Grenada, 
just like they've been doing. I don't know. I'd have to ponder 
on that a little more. 

Otherwise, what it would be doing is have them drive 

to Sardis and get in a government vehicle and go to Enid and 
Grenada, which would to me waste a good bit of time on the road. 

MR. ALLEN: That also sounds an inefficient way of 

managing your workforce. 

MR. KISER (via phone): Yeah. 

 

26 

MR. DAVEY: You may end up having to pay them TDY 

expenses that way. 

MR. KISER (via phone): Yeah. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Dennis, you had a question? 

Come up here to the mic. 

MR. PHELPS: A few years ago, some of our employees on 
the locks and dams down in Arkansas wanted to see about moving 
part of that wage area over to Texas where it was a couple 
dollars higher, and we were told at the time that because they 
were out of Vicksburg, they were all paid the same, and it 
didn't matter. But they were in the Vicksburg wage area, so they 
were all paid the same, regardless. 

It seems to me like it would be an easy thing because, 

administratively, they were under Vicksburg district. It would 
seem to me that, administratively, you wouldn't have to actually 
change their duty station to accomplish that. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: There are two pay practices for the 

Army Corps of Engineers. One is the lake employees, and the 
other is the what? What is the other one called, Mark? 

MR. ALLEN: It's a special wage schedule for lock and 

damn employees. 

 

27 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Lock and dam. So the lock and dam 

are treated differently, right, than the lakes? 

MR. ALLEN: It's possible to not redefine the wage area 

and still put the four lakes under the same wage schedule by 
establishing a special wage schedule for those four lakes. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And that would be analogous to what 
was done in a couple of cases before 1976, right, as outlined in 
your paper where there were some exceptions then. 

Are there any more questions for Mr. Kiser or his 

associates? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I assume we can send you -- 

Mr. Kiser, if we have some follow-up questions, I assume we can 
contact you with those, is that right? 

MR. KISER (via phone): Oh, yes, sir. Yes, sir. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. Is there anything else you 

want to leave us with, further information beyond what you have 
presented so far? 

MR. KISER (via phone): No, sir. I can't think of 

anything. 

Matt? Carl? 

 

MR. PIERCE (via phone): I can't think of anything. I 

just appreciate your time. 

28 

MR. KISER (via phone): Yeah. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Well, thank you. 

MS. ARCHER: Thank you. 

MR. ALLEN: Thank you. 

MS. SIMON: Thank you. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: By the way, if we're going to 

discuss this now, you guys are welcome to stay on the phone. If 
we're going to discuss it, it would be helpful for you to stay 
on the phone in case there are any more follow-up questions. 

MS. ARCHER: I would like to discuss this. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. 

If you can hang on for a bit longer, that would be 

great, Mr. Kiser. 

MR. KISER (via phone): Sure. I can stay on a few more 

minutes. I've got some other meetings that are lined up. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. 

MR. KISER (via phone): But before I hang up, I will 

let you know. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay, thanks. 

 

29 

MR. KISER (via phone): Okay, thank you. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Candace. 

MS. ARCHER: I guess I wanted to ask some questions. I 
don't know if this is the appropriate time to move on to this, 
but I am going to ask some questions on the OPM document that 
deals with the counties redefined, not defined, or split due to 
organizational relationship. 

I presume you put this together or -- 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I think Madeline might have. 

MR. ALLEN: Madeline put this together. 

MS. ARCHER: I think there is a compelling case made 
here that when there is a similar organizational relationship 
that counties have been moved to keep that relationship 
together. So I don't know if you want to comment on that, Mark, 
or if we want to talk through this, but it looks like there have 
been several times at least that the organizational mission has 
moved the counties into a different wage area. 

MR. ALLEN: What's tended to happen over time is that 

we have had had a group of employees who have been closely 
related working with another group of employees, so OPM has 
moved that group of employees into a neighboring wage area, so 
that all the employees are working together. 

 

30 

What that's done, though, is result in counties being 
split because we haven't moved in all cases every employee from 
a county into another wage area just because there are a small 
number of employees working with one installation that is 
associated with an installation that's in a neighboring county. 

MS. ARCHER: Well, but there are cases here that are 

listed where they have been redefined, right? 

MR. ALLEN: Usually been done because there are no 
other employees that would be affected by moving the entire 
county to another wage area. 

In the case of Grenada County, there would be 54 Army 
National Guard employees who are in a county that's currently in 
a survey area, and the regulatory criteria, as the Committee 
determined in the past, would indicate that that county is 
appropriately defined in the Northern Mississippi wage area. 

MS. SIMON: But that's not unprecedented. 

MR. ALLEN: It's not unprecedented to -- 

MS. ARCHER: Well, in that specific county -- 

MR. ALLEN: -- move a county. 

MS. ARCHER: And that specific county seems to have, 

you know, transportation facilities that favor the Memphis wage 
area and only a slightly different commuting pattern. So, I 

 

31 

mean, it looks like Grenada County, there's a better case for 
moving it than Yalobusha, if I am saying that correctly. 

MR. ALLEN: That would be if you're only considering 

the transportation facility's criteria as the predominant 
factor, and this committee has a long record of saying the 
distance is the primary criteria considering -- 

MS. SIMON: And it's only marginal. It's such a 

marginal factor, though, Mark. 

MS. ARCHER: What is the specific distance? I may have 

just missed that, but if you could highlight that for me? I 
mean, obviously, it's more southern, but -- 

MR. ALLEN: Well, if you consider it's the distance to 
Grenada County, Grenada County is a survey county, so you really 
can't get any closer to measuring prevailing wage levels and 
having a survey in the county. That's really what we're looking 
at and what we looked at when we made the recommendation a few 
years ago. 

It's a difficult issue with this wage area because if 

there were only the Army Corps of Engineers employees, five 
employees in Grenada County, and there were no other employees 
there, we would not have Grenada County as the survey area 
county, and in my mind, it would not be as difficult a 

 

32 

discussion from an organizational relationship perspective to 
define Grenada County to the Memphis wage area. 

The fact is we do have 10 times as many employees 

working for the Army National Guard as we have working for the 
Army Corps of Engineers, and we do survey that county to 
determine what the prevailing wage levels are. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any other discussion right now that 

requires Mr. Kiser? 

We could keep talking about the issue, but -- 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Well, if you're still there, 

Mr. Kiser, thank you very much. 

MR. KISER (via phone): Okay. Well, we appreciate it. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: We may have some follow-up 

questions for you. The information you have provided has been 
very helpful -- and your colleagues also, so thank you. 

MR. KISER (via phone): Okay, thank you. We're out of 

MR. PIERCE (via phone): All right. Thank you all. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you. 

MS. ARCHER: Thank you. 

here. 

 

33 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: It just seems to me there are two 

somewhat separate issues here. One is the definition of the 
whole county -- or counties, and how the regulatory criteria 
should be applied, and then there's another question of whether 
this does constitute, these four lakes, a closely related 
activity for which there ought to be some exception under the 
pay practice that is currently applied to lake employees. 

Now, I have no idea what impact this precedent would 

have elsewhere around the country if it were to be set for these 
four lakes. Apparently, back in the late '60s and early to mid 
'70s, there were only two other areas where this sort of issue 
arose at lake projects of the Army Corps of Engineers, but 
whether that's still the case or not, I have no idea. 

MR. ALLEN: We do have a couple of special schedules 
that were established years ago. One had to do with the Army 
Corps of Engineers employees who were working on locks and dams, 
and there was another one that was established for what we 
called at the time "overlap areas." It was established for the 
Department of the Interior where they had a parkway that ran 
through more than one wage area, and employees were required to 
work routinely along the entire parkway. So we have had a policy 
at OPM in the past of, if there are people who are routinely 
working at multiple facilities in a geographic area, for 

 

34 

efficiency sake, it makes sense to have all those employees 
reporting from one duty station or paid from one wage schedule 
to avoid the -- what we have seen today, the inefficient use of 
the workforce, trying to paper over a problem that's been 
created by a wage area definition. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Bill? 

MR. FENAUGHTY: It seems to me that it's very similar 
to the lock and dam situation that we spoke about before, that 
the work that these people perform are across all of these areas 
at one time or another, and I think that may warrant it to get 
into a special category like we talked about for the lock and 
dam people and assign them all to one headquarters area. 

MR. DAVEY: Well, the impression I have is that they 
are distinct facilities, and they have distinct workforces at 
those facilities. And on occasion, they may need to support one 
of the other activities, but they treat them as separate units 
unto themselves with separate workforces. That's the impression 
that I have. 

MS. SIMON: But it sounds like Management would like to 

follow a different procedure and -- 

MR. DAVEY: Well, I think Management has the 

opportunity and the ability to do so now -- they shy away from 
it -- for a morale reason. 

 

35 

MS. SIMON: Mr. Davey, it's just maybe a weird 

coincidence, but we started out our meeting today talking about 
this Employee Viewpoint Survey, and the government has spent 
millions and millions of dollars surveying the workforce. And 
then since then, the Directors of OPM, Deputy Director of OMB, 
Director and Deputy Director of DHS, Assistant Secretary of DoD 
for Personnel and Readiness have expended more hours than I can 
count, holding meetings and focus groups and conversations and 
study groups and committees. How can we improve employee 
engagement and employee morale and the efficient functioning of 
our agencies? 

And here we have somebody saying that this incredibly 
technical kind of designation that could be changed quite easily 
with not much exercise of discretion creates problems. Our most 
important criteria in our regulation distance is ever so 
slightly leaning in one direction for one of the counties. I 
mean, it's really, really, really easy to do the right thing for 
them. It seems like it's real easy and rational and cost saving 
and morale improving. Why wouldn't we want to do it? 

MR. DAVEY: I think there are other criteria that speak 

the opposite. Grenada County and Yalobusha County are very 
dissimilar to the Memphis area that it is going to be assigned 
to. 

 

36 

MS. SIMON: Well, many counties that are areas of 

application are very dissimilar to the city that the wage area -
- that the wage area is named after. 

Yeah, Memphis is a city, and it's surrounded by rural 

counties, and that's true in almost every wage area. 

MR. DAVEY: And I think it's true in every wage area 
that people will interact with the people from the other wage 
areas at some point in their career at some point in time, and 
I'm finding it interesting that that's the major justification 
that I see, that an interaction with an individual in a 
different wage area is the major reason to do this. And I'm 
having -- 

MS. ARCHER: Well, it's not interaction. It's actually 

doing the same work side by side. 

I mean, you heard him say prior to a few years ago, 

they would assign people sometimes for a month because they 
needed that expertise at a certain sight that the person wasn't 
contracted out of or that the person wasn't assigned to. So it's 
not just that they kind of bump up against each other or see 
each other in the highway and wave. They are actually working 
next to each other and sometimes, as it was said, for a month at 
a time. So that's not just sort of the casual thing. These could 
potentially be -- 

 

37 

MR. DAVEY: Well, I didn't mean to imply casual. I 

meant to say that the interaction between the personnel -- in 
different wage areas, I have never known that to be a criteria 
to change a wage area. 

MR. PHELPS: I think one of the important parts that 

you're not looking at, though, Jim, is these are people that are 
administratively under the same small little group there. It's 
not like you're bringing somebody from Chicago down to 
Mississippi and they are working next to them and, therefore, 
they are making different wages. These are people, one county 
next to another, and administratively, they are under that small 
little disparate group down there. 

It's a lot more personal to people when you get like 
that than if you bring somebody from across the country and to 
give me a hand for a while. 

MR. DAVEY: Well, I recognize that, and I recognize 

also that there are many organizations that are similar to that, 
where they have people in -- nearby wage areas, but they are 
managed through one office. 

MR. PHELPS: Well, that's what I was bringing up about 

our Vicksburg area with the lock and dam earlier where we had 
this. They had some people there who were working with the 
people thinking they could go a half hour towards Texas, and the 

 

38 

wage area there was $2 more, where if they go to the east, 100 
miles, they are in the same work area and therefore paid the 
same. And they wanted to know why, and it was because 
administratively, they are under that disparate group. 

MS. SIMON: Mark, are you okay with the idea of 

creating an exception? 

MR. ALLEN: I don't think it's really in keeping with 
what we've done in the past to redefine a wage area. That's why 
we've again in our Management document said that it's not 
appropriate under the regulatory criteria to redefine the wage 
area, but having said that, I can see the sense that Dennis is 
making and that Bill was making also about a special schedule 
practice being possible. You would have to issue regulations to 
do that, but that's something that we could consider at OPM if 
the Committee recommended that. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: So we obviously don't have 

agreement on moving whole counties, but there does seem to be 
some receptivity to establishing a special pay practice that 
would affect the folks at these four lakes. How do we move ahead 
on that? 

MS. SIMON: Well, I'd make a motion that we ask OPM to 
prepare a regulation that would create -- what's the right word? 

 

39 

A special exception, a special schedule to address the unique 
circumstances in this area. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: All right. We have a motion on the 

floor. Is there a second? 

MS. SUSZCZYK: I second it. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: It might help to have the motion in 

writing. 

MR. DAVEY: Discussion? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Absolutely. 

MR. DAVEY: As I understand the concept that you're 
bringing forth, OPM would do regulations that would require a 
special rate in this instance. 

MS. SIMON: Create a special schedule. I don't think 

it's a special rate per se because it's not occupation specific. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Well, if we were to establish a 

special schedule, it would most likely be analogous to what OPM 
has done for decades with the Army Corps of Engineers’ lock and 
dam projects or with various Department of the Interior 
activities that overlap wage areas. So we do have a precedent 
for doing this sort of thing. 

Do we actually know the details of the special pay 

practice that was abolished in 1976 which applied to those two 

 

40 

groups of lakes? I am guessing we don't actually have that 
language handy, or do we? 

MR. ALLEN: No. I don't have access to that. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Would that former pay practice 

perhaps be a basis for what might be proposed in this case? I 
guess we won't know until we see it. 

MR. ALLEN: No. If we do it, it would be something that 

would be new, and it would be limited just to the four lake 
projects in Mississippi. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Do we know? I do think that is a 
research question. Well, there is a motion on the floor. Let’s 
continue discussing it. 

One question I have, if this were to be done for these 

four lakes, are there other groups of lakes around the country 
that are in a similar situation? I have no idea if there are or 
not and if there are, what would be the rationale for excluding 
those others? 

I don't know if I'm phrasing that in a sensible way. 

Is that sort of clear? 

Supposing in Upstate New York, there are four counties 
with four lakes, and they are split between two wage areas, with 

 

41 

the same sort of interchange of workers or the managers would 
like to have interchange and -- 

MS. SIMON: No, the criteria would probably be the 

interchange -- 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes, or the need to have 

interchange for efficient operation -- 

MS. SIMON: Right. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: -- of the facilities. 

MR. FENAUGHTY: I think that because this is an 

exception that you have to deal with every other request for an 
exception the same way, based on the merits of what's offered or 
what's out there. I don't know if it's right to say we can just 
group everybody together that's got -- 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I mean, it's important to know, 

before we proceed too far on this, how many other places around 
the country are similarly situated. 

MR. DAVEY: I think that is very important, and it 

sounds to me like it would undo what was undone in '76. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes. And I would note that at the 
time, it was apparently not a consensus recommendation to undo 
it. 

 

42 

MR. DAVEY: I would suggest that we have an opportunity 

to study the concept. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Do you feel we need a little more 
data and information before we actually vote on what you just 
proposed? 

MS. SIMON: Well, as long as we study concepts, none of 

us might live long enough to complete the study. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Well, I am not suggesting deferring 

it forever. 

MS. SIMON: But I don't necessarily think that this -- 

a decision on this case requires a simultaneous decision on 
every other case that may have some similarities. I think we can 
do it for this location, and then subsequently consider doing it 
for other locations that may or may not have similar management 
challenges. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes. But if OPM wrote a regulation, 

presumably, it wouldn't -- would or would not specifically -- 

MS. SIMON: Well, I think it creates -- 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: -- narrow -- 

MS. SIMON: Mark, you tell me. It creates a new 

schedule for this location. It doesn't create anything more than 
that. 

 

43 

MR. ALLEN: No, it would just be a special wage 

schedule for the four lakes -- 

MS. SIMON: For this location, exactly. 

MR. ALLEN: -- in Northern Mississippi. 

MS. SIMON: This wouldn't be an overarching policy. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Oh, so you could write the 

regulation narrowly. 

MS. SIMON: It would be the creation of a new schedule 
for this location, and it would be up to other locations to let 
us know so we can investigate whether or not those other 
locations would benefit from a similar special schedule. 

MR. ALLEN: In the 23 years I have been working with 

the pay system, I have never heard employees at other lake 
project offices complaining about working side by side with 
employees this closely. 

We have had concerns expressed from employees who 

would like to be redefined to a different wage area but not on 
the basis that -- 

MS. ARCHER: But this one has been a consistent problem 

that's come up over and over and over. 

MR. ALLEN: 40, 45 years probably. 

 

44 

MS. ARCHER: So my guess is, if there were other 

consistent problems, then we would have heard about them. So 
this may very well be a unique situation. 

MS. SIMON: And it's a money saver to the government, 

which is always nice. 

MR. DAVEY: Well, I don't think that this special 

schedule will make it a money saver. I think Management had the 
opportunity to do exactly what they're going to do tomorrow. If 
they have the opportunity to do it today, it's just a morale 
problem that's created by having people side by side. 

MS. SIMON: The man on the phone told us they were 

hiring contractors. They were ultimately paying twice. They were 
paying the contractors, and then they were paying idle Army 
Corps of Engineer employees. This is a small wage increase for a 
small, teeny, tiny group of workers that would eliminate the 
need to hire contractors. 

MR. DAVEY: I think we've got 54 people near them who 

don't have the same issue, and there may be a cascade effect 
here whether for -- 

MS. SIMON: No, it's separate. Very specifically -- I 
mean, I think that's really not fair, because had we proposed a 
redefinition of the county, then we would be addressing the 

 

45 

whole county. But we are very explicitly proposing a solution 
just for the affected employees, the new special schedule. 

MR. DAVEY: I understand that, and -- 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Go ahead. 

MR. DAVEY: I presume that the Army National Guard is 
going to have WG-10 maintenance members as well who are 6 miles 
away from this facility that we're talking about -- 

MS. SUSZCZYK: But are they working together on the 

same projects, side by side over time? Can they come to us for a 
redefinition of the county? 

MR. DAVEY: The concept that I have in my head is equal 
pay for equal work in the same area. So if I am 5 miles away at 
the Army National Guard, my question then is going to be, why 
did you not include me in this revamp that you did? 

MR. PHELPS: For the same reason that other FWS 

employees are not in the same special schedule as lock and dam 
employees in the area. It's all throughout the country. 

MR. DAVEY: But I think the pay is the same, though, 

between a regular schedule and lock and dam. 

MR. PHELPS: You've got a special schedule for lock and 

dam. 

 

46 

MR. ALLEN: No. We have had some complaints and 

congressional inquiries from employees who are under a lock and 
dam wage schedule where they're paid from a wage schedule that's 
lower than what they would be paid under if they were paid by 
their official duty station locally. That has been problematic 
from the perspective of employees at the locks and dams who are 
in what are lower paying wage areas than what they think they 
should be. So Dennis is correct on that. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: You guys have time to write out 

your motion? 

MS. ARCHER: Probably we don't. 

MS. SIMON: Probably not. 

MS. ARCHER: But we can certainly submit it after the 

meeting. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Oh, so we can defer it -- oh. 

MS. ARCHER: I mean, we have it verbally. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I am not cutting off discussion, 

but I just wanted to know. 

MS. ARCHER: Right. My guess is we probably need to 

just -- potentially, it will leave one member, so -- because of 
another commitment. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any more discussion now? 

 

47 

MR. DAVEY: Could I make an alternate motion? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: You can. 

MR. DAVEY: I make a motion that the criteria for wage 

area definitions don’t include interactivity between members 
under the same command as a primary basis. I don't think that's 
clear enough yet. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Is that a motion, or is it more of 

a statement of your understanding? 

MR. DAVEY: I'd like to make a motion to be considered 

along with the motion that's being considered there. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. I don't quite -- it sounds 

more like a comment or a discussion of the motion than a motion. 

MR. DAVEY: I am trying to get the words on my motion 

better here. 

MS. ARCHER: Are you then proposing that the lock and 
dam exception be removed? Is that what you are suggesting here? 

MR. DAVEY: No. The criteria that people who have 

coworkers in different wage areas not become a criterion for 
wage area redefinition. 

MS. SIMON: It isn't. It already isn't. It's not, and 

you'd have to make it one in order to eliminate it. 

 

48 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Mark, is there something in 

regulations that mentions this issue of the relationship among 
closely related or closely located Federal activities? 

MR. ALLEN: It's not in -- 

MS. SIMON: They are not talking about human relations. 

MR. ALLEN: -- anything in the regulations. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: It's not in any of the regulations? 

MR. ALLEN: No. We've never put something in 

regulation. It's always been an FPRAC policy to consider 
organizational relationships, but those are only in regulation 
in that wage area definitions themselves have been adjusted in 
such a way to accommodate organizational relationships. But we 
don't have a regulatory criterion that speaks about whether 
organizational relationships should be considered. 

MS. SIMON: But, Mark, aren't organizational 

relationships operational relationships? They aren't whether 
people like each other. They are whether or not they engage in 
joint activities. 

MR. ALLEN: Yeah. And what we've -- 

MS. SIMON: They don't have to do with personality. 

 

49 

MR. ALLEN: What we've done in the past is, say there's 

a national park that overlaps two wage areas, it just makes 
common sense to have that national park in the same wage area. 

MS. SIMON: Right. 

MR. ALLEN: But we don't actually have a regulatory 

criterion that says -- 

MS. ARCHER: But you have precedent, essentially. I 
mean, that's what I got from this document that this type of 
thing had been done before where people had worked together. 

MR. ALLEN: So what Jim is saying is that he would like 
FPRAC to adopt a policy where organizational relationships among 
closely related Federal activities is not the primary criterion 
that's looked at, but also you're looking at distance and 
transportation facilities and geographic features. 

MS. SIMON: I don't understand why we would need such a 
motion because it doesn't exist, and so to have a motion saying 
we should get rid of it, how can you get rid of something that 
doesn't exist? 

MR. DAVEY: I think we're on the verge of changing a 
wage area precisely for that reason, because of interactivity 
between the people from one wage area to another wage area under 
the same commend. 

 

50 

MR. PHELPS: But you're not on the verge of changing 

the wage area. All you are doing is making this special schedule 
for the Army Corps employees in the wage area. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: You would really be taking those 

lake employees out of the wage area, as I understand it. 

MR. DAVEY: I think the consideration that I would just 

like to make clear is that -- what's on the table is our major 
reason, as I understand it, for having this discussion at all -- 
some people go TDY or travel down the road and interact with 
some coworkers who are lower paid, and the lower paid employees 
are desiring to be higher paid, because these people come down 
the road. 

And to me, that is not a criteria anywhere that we 

should consider as the primary reason to change this, to change 
the -- 

MR. PHELPS: But what about a lower employee who is 

sent up to the higher employees and working next to the guy in 
the higher employees on his job? He is still getting the lower 
pay. 

MR. DAVEY: And I don't see the proposal that it's all 

that. 

MR. PHELPS: Most regulations that I've seen in the 

government, if you work on two jobs, if I'm an electrician and 

 

51 

they put me on a carpenter's job and a carpenter happens to make 
more money than me and I'm working on that job for any period of 
time, I am supposed to get the higher -- or if it's an 8 and a 
10 working in -- and you have an 8 and 10 working side by side 
doing the same thing while the 8 is doing that 10s job, he is 
supposed to be getting the 10 pay. 

MS. SIMON: Mr. Chairman? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes. 

MS. SIMON: Can we please defer the discussion of this 

until a later date? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes. Well, I was hoping we could 
get something in writing, maybe from both of you if you would 
like. 

MS. SIMON: If we can just defer this for a little bit, 

if that's okay. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes. Till the next meeting perhaps? 

MS. SIMON: Perhaps, perhaps. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. Well, that's fine. 

MS. SIMON: Okay. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Does that mean you want to withdraw 

your motion for now or defer it? 

 

52 

MS. SIMON: No, I don't want to withdraw the motion, 

but I would like to table it for the time being. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. And do you want to keep yours 

on the table and keep discussing it? 

MR. DAVEY: I have to still formulate mine. I don't 
have a motion on the table because it hasn't been formulated 
well. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I'm sorry to have to agree with 

you. 

[Laughter.] 

MR. ALLEN: You can write it down. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I am teasing. 

Anyway, all right. So I guess we are going to kick 
this can down the road, but hopefully not for too long. So if 
not at the next meeting, very soon I hope we can reach some 
resolution on this, because it seems like there is some -- maybe 
not unanimity among you, but some potential for getting a 
resolution of this. 

All right. Well, are there any other Old Business 

items that people want to talk about? 

[No audible response.] 

 

53 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: If not, we do have another New 

Business item, which Steve has brought to us. Steve, the floor 
is yours. I'm guessing we're not going to resolve this today, 
but you certainly may speak on it if you would like. 

MR. LANDIS: All right. Our proposal, it's nothing that 

just about everybody here hasn't heard about a hundred times. 

The quick background on it, in 2009, October 2009, 

McGuire Air Force Base, Fort Dix, and Lakehurst Naval Air 
Station were combined into a joint base. The Lakehurst, the 
eastern side of the new joint base, was in Wage Area 94, which 
was the New York and the western side which was McGuire and most 
of Fort Dix was in the Philadelphia wage area. 

We have documentation from stuff that was posted at 

the time that's from OPM that stated that all the Federal 
employees would all be moved into one locality to the New York 
wage area. The GS portion of McGuire and Fort Dix were moved, 
but the FWS were not. And again, that was in October of 2009. 
It's something that we've been working on. It's been kind of put 
on the back burner for the last couple of years, waiting for the 
implementation of the report that we approved here a couple of 
years ago. 

However, I think that this is something that needs to 

be taken care of. It's been over 5 years, and it isn't 

 

54 

necessarily a situation even of GS and FWS employees getting 
paid differently. You have FWS employees on one portion of the 
base being paid differently than FWS employees from the same 
base, just in a different area of the base. 

So, again, you all have, I guess, a copy that was in 

the folder today. If I haven't -- like I said, I am sure 
everyone here knows the details of this very well. I don't want 
to even go into it any deeper unless anybody has any questions. 

MR. ALLEN: Steve, if I understand correctly, what you 
are asking for is an independent analysis of Joint Base McGuire-
Dix-Lakehurst from the October 2010 FPRAC recommendation. You 
want us to look at the Joint Base according to the regulatory 
criteria, independent of that other recommendation. 

MR. LANDIS: Yes. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. It's going to take us a little while 
to put together the regulatory analysis like we normally do, but 
I think we can work on that. 

MR. LANDIS: Okay. Would we need to vote a 

recommendation to do that, or that's just something you would 
do? 

MR. ALLEN: No, we'll do it. 

 

55 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: They are saying they will do a 

regulatory analysis.MR. LANDIS: Okay. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And we don't know quite when but 

hopefully not too long. 

Any discussion on this issue before we -- 

MR. FENAUGHTY: So, Mark, just so I understand this, 
this is, more or less, a done deal? These people actually -- 
there isn't any question that these people should be in the 
correct FWS wage area? That isn't on the table, I guess is what 
I'm asking. 

MR. ALLEN: Nothing has been decided yet. We need to do 

the analysis of the regulatory criteria for -- this would be 
Burlington County, primarily Burlington County, New Jersey, 
which is where McGuire Air Force Base and Fort Dix are located. 
It will just be a standard review that we do, so that everybody 
can see what the distance criteria looks like and all that kind 
of stuff. Nothing is really set in stone. 

It did use to be the case up until the late 1990s that 

the activities currently comprising the Joint Base were all 
under the Philadelphia wage schedule, but there was some dispute 
back when FPRAC considered this issue. I think it was around 
1997. There was a labor motion at the time that the entire -- 

 

56 

what is now the Joint Base should be part of the New York wage 
area. 

So this is another one of those issues that's been 
kicking around for decades, so we'll kick it around some more 
and hopefully come up with a right decision. 

MS. ARCHER: And I just want to reiterate that it's a 

very similar situation that's going on with Monroe County, 
Pennsylvania, and it's been on our Old Business for a long time, 
and I want to suggest the Committee move on this, considering 
we're looking at a very similar thing with this proposal from 
ACT. 

MR. ALLEN: Are you also asking for an analysis 

independent of the -- 

MS. ARCHER: I don't think we need another analysis on 

the Old Business. I would imagine that we have what we need 
there, but we need to be moving on this one. 

MR. ALLEN: We don't really have an analysis of Monroe 

County that the Committee has considered by itself. 

MS. ARCHER: Well, I am just suggesting we need to move 

on some of our Old Business. 

MR. FENAUGHTY: Whatever it takes to do that. 

 

57 

MS. SUSZCZYK: So no analysis was ever done of AFGE's 

proposal, Meeting 564? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Well, it was subsumed by the larger 

measure that we adopted in 2010 and reaffirmed in 2012. So we 
never parsed out Monroe County. This is part of the larger 
issue. 

So, anything else this morning? 

MR. DAVEY: One question, Mr. Landis, if I may. I might 
have not heard the statements that you were making totally, but 
I think you have the impression or you were providing the 
impression that the intent was to have Joint Base McGuire-Dix 
all in one wage area, that being the New York wage area? 

MR. LANDIS: Yes. 

MR. DAVEY: I guess I don't know where that -- can you 

tell me where the intent comes from? 

MR. LANDIS: Well, the base commander, our congressman 
at the time, and there is actually a letter from OPM that says 
once the base is consolidated, all Federal employees will be 
moved into the one locality. 

MR. ALLEN: That was for General Schedule employees. 

MR. DAVEY: General Schedule? Okay. We are talking 

Federal Wage System here, right? 

 

58 

MR. ALLEN: Yeah. 

MR. DAVEY: Yeah? Okay. 

MR. ALLEN: OPM did issue regulations several years ago 

for the Joint Base, so that all of the GS employees would be 
paid from the same GS locality pay table, which was New York, 
but as Jim is referring to, it's a separate pay system, which 
would require separate regulations. OPM was acting on behalf of 
the President's Pay Agent at the time with the GS locality pay 
area. The definition of the wage area for the Joint Base or the 
components of the Joint Base would be OPM Director's decision. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Anything else? Any other New 

Business item that people want to bring up now? 

MS. ARCHER: I just wonder if there is any sort of 

update on the issue of the North Dakota survey area. We spoke 
about it last time. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Right. Oh, yes. Thank you. I didn't 

mean to skip over that. Thank you, Candace. 

We are going to have a table of the potential pay 

flexibilities for FWS workers that could address situations like 
North Dakota’s. OPM cannot initiate requests for these pay 
flexibilities, the requests must come from the employing 
activities’ agencies, but OPM must approve the requests before 
they can be implemented. 

 

59 

MR. ALLEN: I can give some background on activities 

that have been taking place just very recently. 

Director Archuleta visited Minot Air Force Base and 
other activities in western North Dakota, as you know in the 
Bakken Region, and our Deputy Associate Director for Pay and 
Leave accompanied her on that visit and explained what pay 
flexibilities are currently available that could be used when 
needed -- such as the recruitment and retention incentives or 
special rates. 

OPM doesn't currently have any requests for special 
wage rates in the North Dakota wage area, but we do understand 
that the employers in the area are looking into whether they 
need special rates. They do have the option independent of OPM 
of using recruitment and retention incentives. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: So we will have more information, 

we hope at the next meeting on that. 

Is there any new information that you want to bring in 

on this? 

MS. ARCHER: We know Director Archuleta visited, and we 
also know that in her remarks, she expressed various things that 
could have been done, and we were sort of assured that there 
were things in the works from the employers, but we are going 
on, I think, over a month, maybe more since she's visited, so 

 

60 

we're just wondering if there are things in the works from the 
employers or not. So there has been no request to OPM. 

MR. DAVEY: I think it takes time to get any request to 

OPM, and I think things are in the works. It's a matter of 
getting it to this level. 

MS. ARCHER: Do we have a timetable on what that might 

look like? 

MR. DAVEY: We don't have a timetable, per se, but it's 

an item that certainly has the attention of DoD. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Hopefully, we will have more 

information at our next meeting. I guess no promises on that, 
but hopefully, we will. 

MR. DAVEY: Well, even if we had a proposal at OPM, we 

don't have a promise that it would be approved, so -- 

MS. ARCHER: Well, Director Archuleta has been pretty 

clear about saying that she would move on these proposals. So it 
sounds from what we've heard and the statement she's made -- it 
sounds like she is just waiting for the proposal to show up. 

MR. DAVEY: And we expect the proposal will show up. I 
cannot give you a specific date, other than it's a priority item 
in our offices, and it will get over here as soon as we can get 
it over here. 

 

61 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Anything else on this one? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any other New Business issues that 

we need to discuss this morning? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And I would just note that we have 

the dates for our 2015 meetings listed at the bottom of the 
agenda. I believe they are in all cases on the third Thursday of 
the month, and we do have a working group meeting, which is 
going to be right in here. It will be a short one. We'll take a 
break for 5 or 10 minutes before we start the working group. 

And I would just like to mention, we have our not-to-

be-missed Holiday Party right after the next FPRAC meeting. 

MR. ALLEN: It will be the 600th meeting. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: It will be the 600th meeting, yes. 

MS. ARCHER: Is that true? There really is -- 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: There really is a Holiday Party. 

[Simultaneous speaking.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I will say for the record that 

there is no expenditure of Federal funds involved whatsoever for 
this Holiday Party. 

 

62 

Anyway, so it would be in order for us to adjourn, 

unless there is something else we need to talk about. Any 
objection to adjourning? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Hearing none, see you all next 

month. Have a very good Thanksgiving, everybody. 

 

