FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

1 

 616th FPRAC 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

Thursday, September 15, 2016 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management  

Washington, D.C. 20415 

ATTENDANCE: 

Members/Alternates: 

Management Members: 
Mark Allen, OPM 
Jim Davey, DoD 
Jason Munro, Air Force 
Gary Buck, Army 
Carmen Montgomery, VA 

Labor Members: 
Dennis Phelps, MTD 
Jacque Simon, AFGE (via phone) 
Candace Archer, AFGE  
Jeff Beltran, ACT 
 

Staff Specialists and Visitors: 

Brenda Roberts, Designated Federal Officer, OPM 
Madeline Gonzalez, OPM 
Jim Brady, DoD 
Karl Fendt, DoD 
David Pedersen, Navy 
Rosemary Meriwether, Navy 
 

Recording Secretaries: 

Mike Eicher, OPM 
Ana Paunoiu, OPM 

[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.] 

C O N T E N T S  

2 

Page 

I.  Opening/Announcements 

 
Introductions..............................................................................................4 
  Announcements.........................................................................................5 

(cid:173)  New URL for FPRAC: www.opm.gov/fprac 
(cid:173)  Sampling of public comments received in response to the proposed 

rule to redefine portions of Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, 
616-OC-1 

II.  Review of the Minutes of the 615th Meeting…………………………………7 

III.  Old Business.....................................................................................................7 

a.  Letter from the National Association of Government Employees, Dated 
March 9, 2016, Requesting FPRAC Reexamine the Placement of Wage 
Grade Employees Working in Shawnee County, KS, 611-NAGE-1 
(cid:173)  Review of Shawnee County, Kansas, 612-MGT-1 
(cid:173)  Additional Information on Shawnee County, Kansas, 614-OPM-1 
(cid:173)  HVAC Coverage in Kansas City Wage Area by Topeka WG 

Employees, 614-NAGE-1 

(cid:173)  Log Trips from Topeka to Community Based Outpatient Clinics in 

Kansas City Wage Area, 614-NAGE-2 

(cid:173)  Email Stating Topeka Staff Provides Shuttles to Kansas City Wage 

Area, 614-NAGE-3 

(cid:173)   Email Regarding Topeka WG Grounds Staff Vehicle Assistance, 

614-NAGE-4 

(cid:173)  Email Regarding Topeka WG Maintenance Employees Performing 

Work at Community Based Outpatient Clinics East of Shawnee 
County, 614-NAGE-5 

(cid:173)  Motor Vehicle Log Showing Trips from Topeka to Kansas City 

Wage Area and Leavenworth, 614-NAGE-6 

(cid:173)  Work Orders for Topeka WG Employees to Perform Work at 

Community Based Outpatient Clinics in Kansas City Wage Area, 
614-NAGE-7 

(cid:173)  Additional information on Topeka, Kansas, Wage Area, 615-OPM-1 
b.  Definition of Lane County, Oregon, to a Nonappropriated Fund Federal 

Wage System Wage Area, 613-MGT-2 
(cid:173)  Additional information on Lane County, Oregon, 614-OPM-2 

c.  Definition of Forsyth and Mecklenburg Counties, North Carolina, to a 
Nonappropriated Fund Federal Wage System Wage Area, 614-MGT-1 
d.  Definition of Pitt County, North Carolina, to a Nonappropriated Fund 

Federal Wage System Wage Area, 614-MGT-2 

e.  Definition of Lee County, Florida, to a Nonappropriated Fund Federal 

Wage System Wage Area, 615-MGT-1 

 
 
 
 
 

3 

 

C O N T E N T S (continued) 

IV.  New Business..................................................................................................10 

a.  Additional Information on Forsyth and Mecklenburg, North Carolina, 

616-OPM-1 

b.  Additional Information on Pitt County, North Carolina, 616-OPM-2 
c.  Additional Information on Lee County, Florida, 616-OPM-3 
d.  Definition of Brown County, Wisconsin, to a Nonappropriated Fund 

Federal Wage System Wage Area, 616-MGT-1 

e.  Redefinition of the Shelby, Tennessee, Nonappropriated Fund Federal 

Wage System Wage Area, 616-MGT-2 

f.  Definition of Leon County, Florida, to a Nonappropriated Fund Federal 

Wage System Wage Area, 616-MGT-3 

 

 
 
 
 

P R O C E E D I N G  

4 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Good morning, everyone, and welcome to this, our 

616th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee. My name is Sheldon 

Friedman, Chair of the Committee, and as always, let’s go around the table and introduce 

ourselves. Let’s start with you today, Mark, please. 

MR. ALLEN: Mark Allen with OPM. 

MR. DAVEY: Jim Davey with DoD. 

MR. MUNRO: Jason Munro with Air Force. 

MR. BUCK: Gary Buck, Army. 

MS. MONTGOMERY: Carmen Montgomery, VA. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And, Dennis? 

MR. PHELPS: Dennis Phelps with International Brotherhood of Electrical 

Workers, representing the Metal Trades Department, AFL-CIO. 

MS. ARCHER: Candace Archer, AFGE. 

MR. BELTRAN: Jeff Beltran, ACT. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And, Jacque, I think you're out there on the phone? 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] Yes. Jacque Simon, AFGE. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And anybody else on the phone? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I don't think so. All right. 

And if the other folks in the room would also please introduce themselves, 

Brenda, starting with you. Thank you. 

MS. ROBERTS: Brenda Roberts, OPM, Designated Federal Officer. 

5 

 
 
 
 

MS. MERIWETHER: Rosemary Meriwether, Navy. 

MR. PEDERSEN: David Pedersen, Navy. 

MR. BRADY: Jim Brady, DoD. 

MR. FENDT: Karl Fendt, DoD. 

MR. EICHER: Mike Eicher, OPM. 

MS. GONZALEZ: Madeline Gonzalez, OPM. 

MS. PAUNOIU: Ana Paunoiu, OPM. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you.  

Well, just a quick couple of announcements. We have a new URL for FPRAC, 

which you have in your agenda there, much shorter than the old one. 

Also, a sampling of the public comments that were received in response to the 

proposed rule to redefine the Joint Base in New Jersey has been circulated. There were quite a 

few comments received. I don't know if there's any update on the status of the final rule that we 

can share with people this morning. 

MR. ALLEN: No, Mr. Chairman. It's still under review. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. So, with that, unless there are some questions 

about the comments received— 

MR. PHELPS: Where is the review being—where in OPM is the review? Is it 

your office, Director's office? 

MR. ALLEN: It's in our internal clearance process within OPM before it gets to 

the Director for her decision. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Anything else on that?  

MS. ARCHER: I just want to point out for the record that there are a lot of 

 
 
 
 

6 

comments bringing up the Tobyhanna issue and its similarities to the McGuire-Fort Dix-

Lakehurst issue. This is clearly something that has lingered for a long time, and I think it's just 

appropriate to mention that the public comments certainly reflect the concerns there. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you for bringing that up. 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] Yeah. I'd like to add to that. I think that DoD's 

comments that the rectification of the inequity at McGuire-Fort Dix-Lakehurst should never be 

repeated, and that this is an exception, and that they can certainly reject any effort to address 

inequities elsewhere in the system is not helpful. 

I think that there were several—Mr. Glass [ph] in particular—several big 

comments that described a really horrible situation at Tobyhanna, that this inequity is not 

something that just doesn't add up on paper, but that causes serious discord and has productivity 

impacts at the depot. It's caused a lot of conflict, and it's just unjustifiable in so many ways, given 

the extraordinary work performed by the hourly workers at Tobyhanna. That DoD opposes ever 

even considering addressing the inequity at Tobyhanna was really insulting to the workforce. It's 

just an attitude that we really wish could be reexamined and revisited because we all want the 

same thing. We want the people at Tobyhanna to be able to carry out their mission in the most 

effective and efficient way possible, and this denigration of the concept of equity between the 

hourly and salaried workforce has worked against that, and it was really, really unnecessary and 

unhelpful. And I just want the record to show that DoD needs to rethink some of its rhetoric and 

its attitude for addressing the needs of its hourly workforce. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Anything else on this? Jim, do you want to respond? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Sorry. I didn't mean to put you on the spot. 

 
 
 
 

7 

Is there any update, Mark or Brenda, on the FPRAC recommendation about 

Tobyhanna? 

MR. ALLEN: No. That is still under consideration. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. All right. That brings up the review of the 

transcript of our last month’s meeting. Are there any corrections that people want to bring to our 

attention beyond those about which we have already heard from you? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: If not, is there any objection to adopting the transcript 

of last month's meeting? 

MR. ALLEN: No objection. 

MR. PHELPS: No. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. Hearing no objection, the transcript is adopted. 

Thank you. 

That brings up Old Business. We were asked by NAGE, who could not be here 

today—Rob couldn't make it, and none of his colleagues could make it. We were asked to defer 

item (a), which is the Shawnee County, Kansas, issue. So, unless there is some objection here 

this morning, we will simply defer that until next month. 

That brings up item (b) under Old Business, Definition of Lane County, Oregon, 

to a nonappropriated fund Federal Wage System wage area, 613-MGT-2. When that one was 

introduced, Jacque, I believe it was you who asked that the comparison also be extended to 

include the Sacramento wage area, which was then done in 614-OPM-2, so we have those two 

documents and the recommendation of Management regarding the definition of Lane County, 

Oregon, to a nonappropriated fund Federal Wage System wage area. Does anybody need any 

 
 
 
 

update or review on that one? 

[No audible response.] 

8 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any discussion of it? 

MR. ALLEN: I can just cover the high points, Mr. Chairman. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. 

MR. ALLEN: The Management proposal in 613-MGT-2 recommended that Lane 

County, Oregon, be defined as an area of application to the Pierce, Washington, nonappropriated 

fund wage area. That recommendation was based on the regulatory criteria, which for a 

nonappropriated fund area is driven by distance, primarily, or proximity. 

Under 614-OPM-2, we've provided some additional information on the distance 

difference between the Pierce, Washington, area and the Sacramento area, and it's 239 miles to 

Joint Base Lewis-McCord in the Pierce, Washington, area, and 477 miles to the Sacramento area. 

So that was what was driving the initial Management recommendation for defining Lane County 

to Peirce. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you, Mark. 

Any questions or discussion? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Is there a consensus to adopt 613-MGT-2? Is that a 

"yes"? I see yeses. Okay. All right. So we have adopted 613-MGT-2. Thank you. 

MR. ALLEN: For this one, the employees—there are two employees currently 

employed—they're already paid from the Pierce, Washington, schedule, so this will just be 

documenting in the regulations that the county is defined to the appropriate wage area, so no 

impact on pay for those employees. 

 
 
 
 

9 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I am thinking that the next two items might require a 

bit of discussion, so I'm wondering if we can go down to (e), and we'll come back to (c) and (d). 

So (e) is Definition of Lee County, Florida, to a nonappropriated fund Federal Wage System 

wage area, 615-MGT-1, which affects two NAF employees.  

Mark, would you review that one for us, please? 

MR. ALLEN: Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think the only point of information that the 

Committee had asked for on this one was the number of employees and what grade levels they 

were at, and in this case, it's food service workers, two employees at Grade 2. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And this Management proposal to add Lee County to 

the Hillsborough NAF wage area, Hillsborough does seem to be the closest by a 46-mile margin, 

127 miles versus 173, according to the documents we were given, closer than any of the other 

NAF wage areas. So any discussion of this one, item (e) under Old Business, Definition of Lee 

County, Florida? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Is there consensus to adopt item (e), 615-MGT-1? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Are we ready to make a decision on that one? 

MS. ARCHER: I think supplying the wage—I mean, I think that we need to defer 

it for a moment. I want to look at a few more things before we come to a consensus on it. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Do you need a caucus?  

MS. ARCHER: No. I'm just trying to put all the pieces together. 

MR. ALLEN: Yeah. These do get rather confusing because, at least in my mind, 

they're covering similar issues, but we're covering much different parts of the country. 

 
 
 
 

10 

MS. ARCHER: Well, the issue that I think is confusing is the distance. We had 

discussed that the distance was because the way the roads run, not necessarily—I mean, because 

we would look at—yeah, because as you look at the map, it just looks far closer to the Monroe 

area. So I think that we had talked about it having something to do with the way that the roads 

are structured, that the difference is that it is closer to Hillsborough. 

MR. ALLEN: The thing with Monroe County is it actually covers the Florida 

Keys as well, and when we measure distances for nonappropriated fund areas, we're measuring 

from— 

MS. ARCHER: From the base. 

MR. ALLEN: To the host installation. And for the Monroe wage area, the host 

installation is all the way out at Key West. So it's not actually on the mainland portion of Monroe 

County.  

MS. ARCHER: And my other question on this was this is again a situation where 

the county hadn't been defined, but these people are already being paid in this current wage area. 

MR. ALLEN: That's correct. 

MS. ARCHER: I think I don't—I'm okay consenting to this, but I don't— 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: So there's consensus, then, to adopt this one, it 

seems; is that correct? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. Thank you. So we have adopted item (e) under 

Old Business, Definition of Lee County, Florida, 615-MGT-1. 

And with your continued indulgence, I wonder if we could skip to a couple of 

New Business items. I think a couple of these will be easy. Item (e) under New Business, 

 
 
 
 

11 

Redefinition of Shelby County, Tennessee, a case where there is no longer any NAF 

employment, and the proposal is simply to remove that county from the wage area. Is that it, 

Mark? 

MR. ALLEN: That's pretty much it. In this case, it's as a result of the closure of 

Eaker Air Force Base in 1992, so it's taken us a while to get to this one. It's in a part of Arkansas 

where it's unlikely, I think, for there to be future nonappropriated fund employment. It's 

Mississippi County, in the northeastern corner of Arkansas. 

MS. ARCHER: And we're dealing with a lot of issues now of VA having a few 

workers in a county. 

MR. ALLEN: Right. 

MS. ARCHER: We have to add these counties back and determine where they 

fall. We don't have a situation where there's going to be—as I understand it, it was because of 

some of the expansion of certain VA facilities. Before we remove a county, I just—is there any 

plans of VA expansion there, so we're not dealing with this in another year or two? 

MR. ALLEN: No. 

MS. ARCHER: Okay. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Or any other agency. 

MS. ARCHER: Or any other agency, right. 

MS. MONTGOMERY: I don't have any additional information. 

MS. ARCHER: Okay. 

MR. ALLEN: Yeah. I forget the exact name of the main city there, but actually, 

it's right across the river from Memphis, and it seems to be a fairly rural area in the West Bank of 

the Mississippi, so I doubt there would be a need for VA or DoD to establish a nonappropriated 

 
 
 
 

12 

fund activity in that county again. 

MS. ARCHER: We're not going to let you have it, if it has to come back. No, I'm 

just kidding. I'm kidding. 

[Laughter.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: So then is there a consensus to adopt 616-MGT-2 

regarding Shelby County—Shelby County, Arkansas or Tennessee? Which is it? 

MS. ARCHER: It says Tennessee. 

MR. ALLEN: Mississippi County, Arkansas. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Mississippi. Why does it say Shelby— 

MR. ALLEN: We are redefining the Shelby, Tennessee, NAF wage area. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Oh, I'm sorry. I should read my own paperwork here. 

Okay. 

616-MGT-2. 

Anyway, is there a consensus to adopt? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. I see we have consensus. So we have adopted 

MR. ALLEN: It's somewhat confusing for—I think the layperson, they look at 

these things—because we define the NAF wage area by county name rather than by city name, 

so that's the convention we've had for a long, long time. Basically, it's removing a rural county 

from what would be the Memphis, Tennessee, wage area. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And can I suggest we take a look at item (f), that last 

New Business item on the agenda, Definition of Leon County, Florida, to a nonappropriated fund 

Federal Wage System wage area, 616-MGT-3. Please summarize that one for us, Mark. 

 
 
 
 

13 

MR. ALLEN: I guess, Mr. Chairman, we have—now there's one employee 

employed by the VA Canteen Service in Leon County, Florida, which is—that's where 

Tallahassee, Florida, is, and we are recommending that Leon County be defined to the Lowndes, 

Georgia, nonappropriated fund wage area. So, basically, what we're recommending is we're 

linking up Tallahassee with Valdosta, Georgia. Again, it's based on proximity. 

And, again, with the nonappropriated fund wage area definitions, there's a 

sizeable distance, but it is 89 miles to the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, and it is 84 

miles to Moody Air Force Base in Lowndes, Georgia, so slightly closer to the Lowndes, Georgia, 

wage area by a few miles. 

The other regulatory criteria wouldn't really point to anything definitive 

supporting either of those areas. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any questions or discussion on this one? 

[No audible response.] 

MR. ALLEN: Madeline, is the one employee currently paid from the Lowndes 

schedule? 

MS. GONZALEZ: No. The employee is not on VA's payroll yet. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. 

MR. BUCK: He's a new hire? 

MS. GONZALEZ: Yes. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: So is there consensus to adopt this one? Do we need 

time to think about it? 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] Is this 616-MGT-1 we're talking about right now? 

14 

 
 
 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: 616-MGT-3. 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] Three. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yeah. I went out of order— 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] Oh, okay. All right. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: —just to see if we could get some of what I guessed 

might be easy done. 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] Are we still talking about Lee County, Florida? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Leon. We dealt with Lee County, and now we're 

doing Leon County. 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] All right. I think my paperwork is mislabeled. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: This is 616-MGT-3. 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] Oh, oh, oh. My problem is— 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: You got it? 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] 616-OPM-3. Okay. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Pardon? 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] I was looking at 616-OPM—okay. What grade is this 

worker? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Does anybody know the answer to Jacque's question? 

MR. ALLEN: We don't have that information in the package, but I would—I 

think I would be safe in making the assumption again that it's a nonappropriated fund Grade 2 

employee, a food service worker at most likely a snack bar or a coffee bar. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any discussion on this one? 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] I'm okay with this one. 

 
 
 
 

15 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: All right. So is there a consensus?  

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: It seems that there is. Okay. Thank you. Very good. 

So we have adopted 616-MGT-3 by consensus. Thank you. 

So now let's circle back to items (c) and (d)—I guess we'll do them in order—

under Old Business. (c) is Definition of Forsyth and Mecklenburg Counties, North Carolina, 

614-MGT-1, supplemented by 616-OPM-1, which addresses some of the questions that were 

asked at a previous meeting. 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] This is 615-OPM-1? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: This is—okay. We're talking about 614-MGT-1— 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] Oh. All right. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: —which is supplemented by 616-OPM-1, so those 

two pieces together. 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] All right. Now I got my answer to this because I don't 

have 616— 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: You got it? 

MS. SIMON: [via phone] I only have 616-OPM-1. All right. Okay. I understand 

what you're doing. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: So what was done here—maybe, Mark, I should ask 

you to summarize, but basically, a question was asked at the last meeting about why some other 

nearby wage areas weren’t also considered. I think 616-OPM-1 added that, and also, questions 

were asked about pay grade of the workers affected and so forth. Do you want to summarize? 

MR. ALLEN: We did find out one thing that was a little unexpected with the 

 
 
 
 

16 

further analysis that we did with 616-OPM-1. When we looked at the distances, we found that 

Forsyth County—and we provided a map with a wider view in 616-OPM-1. We're measuring 

distances from Forsyth and Mecklenburg Counties to other wage areas that are in proximity to 

those two counties. 

Forsyth County is just to the north of Rowan County, which is already an area of 

application county to the Cumberland wage area.  What we found for Forsyth County is that it's 

103 miles to Fort Bragg in Cumberland County. The next closest federal installation is Seymour 

Air Force Base in Wayne County, which is 154 miles, and it's to the east of Cumberland County. 

So for Forsyth County, I think it's a pretty clear case that the distance would determine that it 

should be defined to the Cumberland wage area. 

The next one, Mecklenburg County, is actually closer to Fort Jackson, which is in 

the Richland, South Carolina, wage area. The reason that the Management proposal continues to 

recommend that Mecklenburg be defined to the Cumberland area is because of the organizational 

relationship between Forsyth and Mecklenburg Counties and their linkage with Rowan County, 

which is right in between those two counties. They're basically outpatient clinics associated with 

Rowan County, and although Mecklenburg is not adjacent to Rowan County, it's very close to it. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any questions or discussion? 

MR. ALLEN: One other thing I wanted to point out— 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to cut you off. 

MR. ALLEN: —this came up at the last meeting, which was that the two counties 

are not currently staffed with nonappropriated fund employees, but there is a projection that there 

would be seven employees in each county. In October 2016, the Charlotte Health Care Center in 

Mecklenburg County would be staffed up, so next month. 

 
 
 
 

17 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any questions or discussion on this one? 

MS. ARCHER: I'm not certain why you're not recommending that Mecklenburg 

be put in with the Richland area if the criteria seem to match in terms of distance. 

MR. ALLEN: In the past, it's been a practice for the Committee to make 

recommendations for nonappropriated fund areas by taking into consideration the organizational 

relationships between activities that employ nonappropriated fund employees. So we did that. It 

might have been in Indiana where we might have done something similar to this. That's what the 

Management proposal is based on, and it follows prior precedent that's been set for this type of 

situation, where a county is a considerable distance away from any survey areas, but there's kind 

of an operational desirability to have the employees who are directed by a parent medical center.  

Based on precedent, these employees should be paid from the same schedule if there's not a great 

deal of distance difference between the two choices. 

MS. ARCHER: So, in this situation, it looks like it's a 40-mile difference. So that 

would not be a great deal. I mean, that seems like that would change commuting patterns and 

other things. 

MR. ALLEN: The commuting patterns could be measured from the counties to 

the survey area, so there really wouldn't be any commuting at that much of a distance for what 

we're talking about. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I don't mean to delay anything on this, but I wonder, 

given that we have a long awaited working group meeting where we will be talking about the 

larger issue of closely located, closely related federal activities, whether this is something that we 

might want to kick around in the working group? Unless people are ready to make a decision on 

it. I don't want to sidetrack that, if you are ready, but this one might be something that we should 

 
 
 
 

18 

fold into the working group conversation. What do people think? 

MR. ALLEN: There's a time pressure on this one because there will have to be a 

decision made by VA about what wage schedule to apply to the employees when they're brought 

on board next month in Mecklenburg County. 

MS. ARCHER: I thought you said that was 2017. 

MR. ALLEN: 2016. 

MS. ARCHER: '16. 

MR. ALLEN: I believe that's still the case, but the plan is to bring them on next 

month. 

MS. MONTGOMERY: Yes. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Well, I think Management would like us to decide 

this today, if possible. 

MR. ALLEN: It would be helpful. Otherwise, the VA is going to have to make a 

decision themselves about how to pay the employees. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Is there or is there not consensus to adopt this 

proposal? 

MS. ARCHER: I feel like this might be something worth talking about in the 

working group. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. Unless you want to vote on it, we'll have to 

defer it. 

MR. ALLEN: No, I think this is one where we can discuss it some more. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. Which then brings up item (d) under Old 

Business, which is possibly another one that falls in the same category, but we'll see. We have 

some supplementary information on that one. We're talking about 614-MGT-2, as supplemented 

 
 
 
 

19 

by 616-OPM-2. 

MR. ALLEN: This is for Pitt County? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. We had some information to share on this one about the 

employees. There's a question about whether they were temporary or permanent because that 

impacts whether they would be entitled to pay retention or not.  

Previously, we had indicated there were three positions, and we found out that 

there are now two positions. One position is permanent, and one is temporary. The third position 

is now vacant, and there are no plans to fill that vacant position. Both the current employees are 

food service workers at Grade 2.  

I guess the only other thing to say on that is that that additional information has no 

impact on the Management recommendation to move Pitt County into the Wayne wage area. 

MR. PHELPS: How long have the temporary workers been there? 

MR. ALLEN: I have no idea about that. 

MR. PHELPS: I'm just wondering why we have a permanent worker and a 

temporary worker at the same grade working at the same place, and we're talking about adjusting 

pay possibly for them. Why the regulations—if they've been there and if it's been a temporary 

worker for a certain amount of time, they should have been made permanent. 

MS. MONTGOMERY: Well, I had the staff find out who those employees were, 

but they didn't dig that deep into, you know, the appointments and why they were appointed that 

way. But we could certainly look into it. I have no— 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Is it a new facility? Am I wrong about that? 

 
 
 
 

20 

MS. MONTGOMERY: I'm not sure if it's a new facility or not, but I can have 

them look into that as well. We will look that up. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: All right. I guess we'll seek more information. 

MS. MONTGOMERY: Yep. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: This is another one where there is an issue with its 

relationship. It's a satellite— 

MS. ARCHER: Right. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: —of a larger facility. The large facility is in a 

different wage area, so, again, this is somewhat analogous to the previous issue, it seems to me. 

MR. ALLEN: Mm-hmm. Regarding Dennis' question about the temporary 

employee, and there's one temporary employee and one permanent employee, - I think what 

you're asking, Dennis, is whether it's possible maybe to make the temporary employee a 

permanent one if the other person working— 

MR. PHELPS: Well, according to OPM regulations, if you have a temporary 

employee or a temporary position for such a period of time, you know, then it's supposed to be 

made permanent. You know, you're not supposed to indefinitely keep temporary positions, even 

if it changes the employee themselves. If you have a position that's there for a certain period of 

time, it needs to be filled by a permanent employee rather than a temporary employee. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: At any rate, we're going to defer this one, it sounds 

like? 

MR. PHELPS: Yeah. 

MS. ARCHER: Yeah. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. I think we have one other item under New 

 
 
 
 

21 

Business, which is item (d), Definition of Brown County, Wisconsin, to a nonappropriated fund 

Federal Wage System wage area, 616-MGT-1. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. This one is similar to the other cases we've dealt with but a 

little bit different, as all of them are from each other. Brown County, Wisconsin, that's actually 

Green Bay, Wisconsin, and what we are recommending in the Management proposal is that the 

county be defined to the Lake, Illinois, nonappropriated fund area, and when we took a look at 

this distance driving the recommendation, there are four nonappropriated fund employees of the 

VA Canteen Service. The closest NAF installation is about 170 miles away from Brown County, 

but that is the closest. It's the Naval Station Great Lakes. 

The sticky issue with this one is that there have been employees at the VA facility 

in Brown County for a while, and the employees have been paid from the wage schedule that is 

not the correct one. The correct one that would apply to that county would be the Lake, Illinois, 

Rest of U.S.-equivalent schedule because the floor increase provision each year going back to 

2004 requires that Federal Wage System employees receive the same GS adjustment as the 

employees where they work. So the employees have been paid from the Lake (Milwaukee) 

schedule because Lake County coincides with Milwaukee GS locality pay area, but this locality 

pay area does not include Brown County. Brown County is not part of the Milwaukee locality 

pay area for General Schedule employees. Brown County is in the Rest of U.S. locality pay area. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Did it also have something to do with the fact that 

that Green Bay facility is a satellite of the larger Milwaukee Hospital? 

MR. ALLEN: That's probably what the payroll folks made that decision on, but 

it's not the correct wage schedule to use.  

MS. ARCHER: So what would that do to these people's wages? You only 

 
 
 
 

22 

included the one— 

MR. ALLEN: It would be slightly lower. 

MS. ARCHER: —wage schedule? 

MR. ALLEN: Yeah, it would be slightly lower. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any questions or discussion on this one? 

MS. ARCHER: I think I'd actually like to see the wage schedule for what they're 

being paid on right now. 

MR. ALLEN: See the difference? 

MS. ARCHER: Yes. And also, I guess I'm confused about why it being a satellite 

of the Milwaukee institution, this situation, they're not just paid with the Milwaukee area when 

the reasoning for the Mecklenburg one seemed to be that they were—you know, the 

organizational activity put those folks in a different wage area. 

MR. ALLEN: What we're recommending is that the Brown County be defined to 

the appropriate wage area, and then after that—it's a different situation than the situation in North 

Carolina in that there are two wage schedules that apply—maybe three wage schedules that 

apply for the Lake, Illinois, wage area. Because of the way that the floor increase provision in 

appropriations has worked since 2004, most wage areas have more than one wage schedule that 

applies, so that the Federal Wage System employees receive the same percentage annual 

adjustment as the General Schedule employees, where they work, but it's based on official duty 

station rather than based on proximity to a parent organization or installation.  

MR. PHELPS: Okay. That seems to fly in the face of the argument you were 

making for Mecklenburg, though. If this is a duty station that they're at and it's closer to the 

South Carolina wage area there for Mecklenburg County, but you're saying that because of 

 
 
 
 

23 

they're administrative tied together, why wouldn't that be the case in Wisconsin? 

MR. ALLEN: Yeah. W ell, we're actually doing the same thing and 

recommending that the Brown County be defined to the wage area, the parent installation it's 

already in, but it's a function of another provision of law that requires the annual adjustments to 

be the same as what GS employees receive. And that's not what's going on in North Carolina 

with Mecklenburg County. 

MR. DAVEY: I think the difference here is the wage area is going to be the same 

as where they are now. They are going to be in Lake. They're already in Lake. Is that correct? 

MS. ARCHER: No. 

The way I understood, they are being paid out of Milwaukee. 

MR. DAVEY: No . They're being paid out of the Lake survey area, Lake 

schedule, but there's three choices. There's three different schedules, and the schedule that is 

being proposed is a different one of those three schedules to the Lake area, so it's not the same as 

the North Carolina scenario. 

MR. PHELPS: I thought what Mark said earlier, they were being paid out of the 

Milwaukee schedule now. 

MR. ALLEN: They're being paid out of the Lake, Illinois, wage area, but there is 

more than one wage schedule that applies within that wage area because of the floor increase 

provision, and the county that Milwaukee is in is Milwaukee County. I thought it might have a 

different name, but it's Milwaukee County, which is two counties north of Lake County, and 

there's a separate GS locality pay area for Milwaukee from Chicago, and then Chicago and 

there's Milwaukee, but Brown County is in the Rest of U.S. locality pay area. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Anything else? 

 
 
 
 

24 

MR. DAVEY: I think in North Carolina, if there were two different schedules, 

then we'd be having a similar conversation: Which one of the two are you going to be put on? 

MR. ALLEN: Yeah. Actually, it's not discretionary because of the floor increase 

provision and the rule that an employee must be paid from the location where his official duty 

station is. It's a function of the appropriations law. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I hear what you're saying, Mark. I understand the law 

and regulations in that regard. I'm just curious about one thing, which is about the GS employees 

in Green Bay at this satellite facility. I'm assuming their locality pay is Rest of U.S., but if that's 

not the case, I'd like to know that. In other words, are they possibly—because their facility is a 

satellite of the larger hospital Milwaukee, are those GS employees possibly getting Milwaukee 

locality pay? 

MR. PHELPS: Well, if you're looking— 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I doubt that they are, but this is a piece of information 

that I personally would like to know. 

MR. ALLEN: I would hope that they're not because, if they were, they'd be owing 

the government— 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. I think that would be useful if we just clarify 

that. I may be the only one who is interested in that question, but I am interested in it. 

MR. PHELPS: Why are they Rest of U.S. and you want to put them in with the 

Lake County when they're actually even physically close to Milwaukee County? 

MR. ALLEN: Milwaukee County is part of the Lake wage area. 

MR. PHELPS: Right. 

MR. ALLEN: That's where the parent installation is for Brown County, and 

 
 
 
 

25 

Brown County is geographically closer to the Lake survey area than any other survey area. 

MR. PHELPS: But Milwaukee is part of the Lake survey area, correct? 

MR. ALLEN: Yeah. 

MR. PHELPS: Okay. And, the arguments—or the case that Management 

continues to make on almost every change that they want is that it's physically closer to this area 

than to that area is why we want to change it, yet in this instance, Brown County is physically 

closer to the Milwaukee area than it is to Lake County. 

MR. DAVEY: But Milwaukee is not an area, per se. It's the Lake wage area, 

which is the area. 

MR. PHELPS: It's kind of confusing to me where we want to use mileage for 90 

percent of the things, but then when there's one, even though it's in the same survey area or same 

area, but you have three different schedules there, why you wouldn't go with the closest physical 

schedule by mileage than to some other schedule 

MR. DAVEY: Well, I don't think that's what we're allowed to do. 

MR. PHELPS: Well, that's why I'm asking. 

MR. DAVEY: We're required to follow RUS. If it's in RUS, then you use RUS, is 

the increase you follow. If you're in Milwaukee, you use Milwaukee— 

MR. PHELPS: Well, how does it get qualified as RUS versus in the Milwaukee? 

That's— 

MR. DAVEY: Where it's physically located. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: That's based on the geographic definition of the GS 

locality pay area. 

MR. ALLEN: We have no statutory authority to apply the— 

 
 
 
 

26 

MR. PHELPS: Okay. I'm just asking. I was confused about that. 

MR. ALLEN: I understand your confusion. I've been confused myself about the 

floor increase provision. 

MR. PHELPS: Right. 

MR. ALLEN: And apparently, people in Green Bay, Wisconsin, were confused 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. Anything else on this now? 

MS. ARCHER: So I think it's helpful to see the other Lake area schedules, so we 

about it too. 

can— 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. 

MS. ARCHER: And I am also interested in the point that Sheldon raised about the 

GS—what might be going on with GS workers. 

MR. ALLEN: Would we be able to get that information, Carmen? 

MS. MONTGOMERY: Yes. I will have the staff research that information as 

well. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. 

MS. MONTGOMERY: I have a note for the GS— 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you. That would be very helpful. 

Well, is there any other New Business beyond what we have listed on the agenda? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: In that case—and we do have a working group 

meeting scheduled for about 10 minutes after the end of this meeting, in the Small Pendleton 

Room. We've got that room, don't we, Madeline? 

27 

 
 
 
 

MS. GONZALEZ: We should. 

MR. ALLEN: We might have to muscle in there. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yeah. 

So, unless there's some other New Business item, it would certainly be in order 

for us to adjourn. Is there any other New Business item? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay 

Is there any objection to adjourning? 

MR. PHELPS: Move to adjourn. 

MR. ALLEN: Second. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there any objection to adjourning? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Hearing no objection, we are adjourned. Thank you. 

See you all in a few minutes. 

