 

1 

564th FPRAC 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management 

Washington, D.C. 

Thursday, June 16, 2011 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
  Management Members 
  MARK ALLEN, Office of Personnel Management 
  SETH SHULMAN, Department of Defense 
  CARLOS SAAVEDRA, Department of Navy 
  PAMELA SOKOL, Department of Army 
  THURSTAN HUNTER, Department of Veterans Affairs 
 
  Labor Members 
  DENNIS PHELPS, Metals Trade Department 
  SARAH SUSZCZYK, NAGE 
  JACQUELINE SIMON, AFGE 
  TERRY GARNETT, ACT 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors: 
  MADELINE GONZALEZ, Office of Personnel Management 
  TERRI AVONDET, Office of Personnel Management 
  JEROME MIKOWICZ, Office of Personnel Management 
  CHARLES D. GRIMES III, Office of Personnel Management 
  VICKY HERANA, Department of Defense 
  BILL BECHT, Department of Defense 
  STEVE RUMBLE, Department of Defense 
  JIM BRADY, Department of Defense 
  H.L. "Hank" ROVAN, Department of Defense 
  KARL FENDT, Department of Defense 
  BECKY CHAVES, Department of Defense 
  
Recording Secretary:  VANNESSA BROWN 
  [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.] 

 

 

2 

C O N T E N T S 

 
 
                                                        Page 
 
I.    Opening/Announcements 
      • Introductions......................................3 
      • Announcements 
        - H.R. 1540, House National Defense Authorization 
          Act, FY2012 Report Language on the Federal Wage 
          System, 564-OC-1.................................4 
        - Labor Participation Memo, 564-OC-2...............4 
        - FPRAC Chairman's Response to Senator Robert P. 
          Casey Jr.'s May 19, 2011, letter, 564-OC-3………....5 
 
II.   Review of the Minutes of the 563rd Meeting...........5 
 
III.  Old Business 
      • Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2.........20 
      • Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns 
        - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on  
          Survey Issues Work Group, 561-OC-1..............20 
      • Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal 
        Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1.....20 
      • Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 
        Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2..........22 
 
IV.   New Business 
 
      • Definition of Killeen-Temple-Fort Hood, TX 
        Metropolitan Statistical Area, 564-MGT-1..........23 
      • Definition of College Station-Bryan, TX 
        Metropolitan Statistical Area, 564-MGT-2..........25 
      • Abolishment of Montgomery, PA as a 
        Nonappropriated Fund Federal Wage System Wage 
        Area, 564-MGT-3...................................30 
 
        Nonappropriated Fund Federal Wage System Wage 
        Area, 564-MGT-4...................................34 
      • Letter from the American Federation of Government 
        Employees, dated June 6, 2011, Requesting FPRAC 
        Review a Proposal to Redefine Monroe County, PA 
        from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA Wage Area to 
        New York, NY Wage Area, 564-AFGE-1................36 
  
 

• Abolishment of Monmouth, NJ as a 

•-•-• 

 

 

3 

P R O C E E D I N G S 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone.  

MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Seth Shulman, DoD. 
MR. SAAVEDRA:  Carlos Saavedra, Department of the 

 
 
Welcome to this 564th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate 
Advisory Committee.  My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chairman 
of FPRAC, and as we usually do, why don't we go around the 
table and have the members of the committee introduce 
themselves. 
 
 
 
Navy. 
 
 
Veterans Affairs. 
 
 
Department. 
 
 
 
Civilian Technicians. 
 

MS. SIMON:  Jackie Simon, AFGE. 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE. 
MR. GARNETT:  Terry Garnett, Association of 

MS. SOKOL:  Pamela Sokol, Department of the Army. 
MR. HUNTER:  Thurstan Hunter, Department of 

MR. GRIMES:  Chuck Grimes, OPM. 
MR. PHELPS:  Dennis Phelps with the Metal Trades 

 

4 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And if the visitors and 

 
observers would also introduce themselves, those who are 
seated in the back? 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 
 
MR. RUMBLE:  Steve Rumble, Department of Defense. 
 
MS. AVONDET:  Terri Avondet, OPM. 
 
MR. MIKOWICZ:  Jerry Mikowicz, OPM. 
 
MS. HERANA:  Vicky Herana, DoD. 
 
MR. BECHT:  Bill Becht, DoD. 
 
MR. FENDT:  Karl Fendt, DoD. 
 
MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, DoD. 
 
MS. CHAVES:  Becky Chaves, DoD. 
 
MR. ROVAN:  Hank Rovan, DoD. 
 
MS. BROWN:  Vannessa Brown, OPM. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Thank you. 
 
 
We'll get started with a few quick announcements. 
 We put in your packets the report language from the House 
National Defense Authorization Act on the Federal Wage 
System.  Any questions about that? 
 
 
 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Also, the Labor participation 

 

5 

I would like us to actually discuss that a bit 

memo I drafted pursuant to the discussion that we had at our 
last meeting of the Director's decision regarding the 
recommendation that FPRAC made last October concerning 
AFGE-557-1. 
 
because it appears there is not consensus about that memo, 
which I find unfortunate.  I want us to talk about it in a 
few minutes, if we can. 
 
meeting adopted and then come back to that. 
 
we received from Senator Casey, which his staffperson read 
into the transcript of our last meeting. 
 
Which brings up the review of the transcript of 
our last meeting.  I trust everyone has received it.  Did 
anyone not get it? 
 
 
 
already received from people? 
 
 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Sounds like everyone got it. 
Are there any further edits beyond those we've 

Let's at least get our minutes from the last 

And also circulated my response to the letter that 

[No audible response.] 

 

6 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, is there any objection 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing no objection, the 

 
to adopting the transcript from our last meeting? 
 
 
transcript is adopted. 
What I would like to do is take just a very brief 
 
while to discuss a bit further the way ahead on this issue 
of the Labor members' request for participation in the 
analysis and report of the proposal to not subdivide GS 
locality pay areas between Federal Wage System wage areas. 
 
talking about if I got it backwards. 
 
preference at our last meeting to not just simply be 
presented with a report at the end of this year but have an 
opportunity to be involved in the analysis, the issues, and 
then the other aspects of that report that would lead up to 
its finalization. 
 
recidivity on the Management side that this would represent 
value-added in the process.  I, to kind of move things 
 

I got that backwards.  You guys know what I'm 

Anyway, the Labor members expressed a strong 

And I had thought there was actually some 

 

7 

What I would suggest at this point, rather than 

along, offered to draft a short statement to that effect, 
which was circulated, and apparently, there's not consensus 
on the management side about that statement, which would be 
a request that was made to Director Berry. 
 
belabor that, if there is not consensus about it, I find it 
unfortunate that if there is not a feeling that there would 
be value-added by such Labor involvement at an earlier 
stage, but perhaps the way to move ahead is if the Labor 
members feel strongly about this, they should simply write 
Director Berry directly about it.  I don't know any other 
way to move ahead on this.  I don't think it makes sense to 
have a huge long discussion in here about it. 
 
MS. SIMON:  Well, obviously, we can do that, but I 
would still very much like communication from you reflecting 
the fact that we discussed it and that there was at least 
some support on the Management side as well as some 
opposition, so that we don't have a unanimity in support for 
this, but we had broad support for it, and so that it was 
not a unanimous FPRAC recommendation, nevertheless it was 
discussed at FPRAC, and most people on both the Labor and 
 

 

8 

MS. SIMON:  That would be a very good idea, I 

At the last meeting, I did make a suggestion that 

Management side thought it was a good idea. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I'm happy to lend my personal 
support to the proposition that there would be value-added 
to labor involvement at a stage earlier than presentation of 
a final report. 
 
think. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I guess the Management folks 
would have to speak for themselves how they would like to 
characterize their feelings about this issue. 
 
being somewhat mischaracterized. 
 
since FPRAC has an ongoing working group that OPM staff 
would make sure that the working group members were aware at 
key moments throughout the review process about what OPM 
staff were doing, what we were finding, and that we would be 
receptive to receiving input from any of the committee 
members, Labor or Management, about the direction overall 
that we were headed with the review. 
 
 

MR. ALLEN:  I think the Management position is 

I think it's really not necessary for FPRAC to go 

 

9 

MS. SIMON:  Well, I think we're at a very, very 

back to the Director and ask him to sort out the difficulty 
that we're having that simply revolves around the level of 
participation in the OPM staff review and FPRAC's 
involvement in it. 
 
awkward little spot here, because obviously the Director of 
OPM gave an assignment to his own staff, and his own staff 
is now reluctant to go back to their boss and say, "You made 
a mistake in the way you described your assignment to me, to 
us, and this is how it should work."  That's entirely 
understandable that the OPM staff would not want to question 
their boss' assignment. 
 
preference for Labor involvement is not at all acceptable to 
us, and it's not what we had in mind.  And so I guess we do 
need some kind of a letter to the Director that can 
certainly, you know, include the vehement opposition to the 
kind of participation by Labor that we would like to have, 
and the Director will just have to make a decision because 
FPRAC didn't have consensus. 
 
 

So that said, the way Mark just described his 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  I guess my own 

 

10 

MS. SIMON:  Sure. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  It didn't direct OPM staff to 

observation on this is I don't read the Director's memo as 
precluding Labor participation.  It just is silent on that 
point.  It doesn't -- 
 
 
affirmatively seek it out. 
MS. SIMON:  True. 
 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  It didn't say don't do it 
either.  My read of it is it was silent on that. 
 
But I think just to sum up is that if the Labor 
folks want, they are free to communicate to the Director 
about this, and I guess that's where we'll leave it. 
Anything else? 
 
 
MS. SIMON:  So we won't have any kind of formal 
communication to the Director signed by you that described 
the -- 
 
support to the proposition that Labor participation would 
add value to this undertaking.  I mean, I don't know what 
more to say.  I'm happy to -- 
 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I'm happy to lend my personal 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 

 

11 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I mean, I don't know what -- 
MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
MR. ALLEN:  We're all in agreement that Labor 

 
 
 
participation would be valuable in this process.  It's just 
that the degree of participation that's being expressed here 
is not really in accordance with what the Director's stated 
intent is, that his staff, OPM staff, would work with the 
Department of Defense to develop a technical analysis of how 
an FPRAC recommendation might be implemented at some point 
in the future. 
 
and 'round and 'round in this, but we know there's lots of 
ways to cost this proposal, and we also know that everybody 
-- there are ways to cost it in order to kill it, and there 
are ways to cost it that are not designed to kill it.  And 
that's what we want to ensure, that a fair assessment of all 
the technical issues and the cost of implementation will be 
presented. 
 
there is no doubt in anybody's mind in this entire room how 
strongly you feel about this proposal, and so we want to 
 

MS. SIMON:  Well, Mark, we don't have to go 'round 

You know, it's highly political.  I think that 

 

12 

make sure that we are involved in every aspect of this 
study, so that it doesn't present the worst-case scenario 
exclusively. 
I'm just being completely honest.  That is our 
 
concern, and that's why we want to be involved at every 
stage.  That's it. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I suppose one way to handle 
this -- let me run this by the committee -- were the Labor 
folks to state what it is they would like in this regard, in 
regard to Labor participation in this report, the Management 
folks to state the nature, well, along the lines of what you 
were suggesting, Mark, of using the work group or whatever 
else, the degree and kind of Labor participation that the 
Management folks are comfortable with, and we can transmit 
both with some kind of covering memo from me and leave it at 
that.  Does that seem like a way to handle it? 
 
 
 
necessary for the Director to receive a communication from 
FPRAC about business that should be handled within the 
 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah, that's okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
MR. ALLEN:  Again, I don't really think it's 

 

13 

committee. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Although we don't have 
consensus on how to handle it, so I'm not sure how to 
proceed.  You're welcome -- if you have a thought on that, 
I'd be happy to hear it. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Well, it appears to me that at this 
 
point, FPRAC has already done its part.  We had, as we had 
advocated prior to voting on the proposal, the same study 
that the committee should have done it prior to voting 
without entering a vote, without a thorough analysis where 
everyone participated and come to a conclusion as to what 
the effect of the proposal would have overall. 
 
decided not to do that.  FPRAC moved forward.  We voted, and 
it was submitted to OPM. 
 
Director has now determined he wants some data, let OPM do 
the data.  And frankly, I don't understand "fair."  Data is 
data, and whatever the data outcome is, is what it is, and 
who is going to determine what's fair? 
 
 

We didn't do that.  We chose not to do that.  We 

And now to want to go back and do that?  The 

And if we're going to mired in that quagmire, it 

 

14 

seems to me the committee will never -- if we can't agree 
now on the way forward, it seems to me very difficult to 
determine what's fair during the analysis.  It will never 
get to the Director, then, if the committee tries to impose 
itself in what we should have done initially, to have given 
the Director a solid proposal with the data supporting 
whatever the proposal -- if the proposal still would have 
been to proceed forward with it, to have provided the data 
then that it supported the proposal.  But the proposal went 
forward with no data, with no analysis. 
 
should have come up with all of this analysis prior to the 
vote -- 
 
 
 
have done that. 
 
we're asking now.  If we didn't do it then, but it needs to 
be done now, then let the committee do it rather than one 
side of the committee. 
 

MR. SHULMAN:  I said -- 
MR. PHELPS:  -- without Labor participation? 
MR. SHULMAN:  No.  I'm saying the committee should 

MR. PHELPS:  Well, are you saying that OPM and DoD 

MR. PHELPS:  Well, then that's basically what 

 

15 

MR. SHULMAN:  But my point is we bled it out, out 

MR. PHELPS:  Well, it seems to me by the letter 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes.  We don't like coming to an 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Sure.  I think we have the 

MR. ALLEN:  Mr. Chairman, the Management members 

 
of the committee sense.  Now it's at OPM. 
 
that the Director sent back that it's back at the committee 
level. 
 
would like to caucus. 
 
small Pendleton Room. 
 
 
 
 
anything you want to report on your caucus, or how do you 
want to proceed, everybody? 
 
impasse on this, this issue.  We don't think it's really 
necessary to come to an impasse. 
 
What we would like to offer as an alternative to 
the ideas that have been expressed so far is to establish a 
separate working group that's discrete for this review, have 
 

[Management caucus held off the record.] 
MS. BROWN:  The recorder is on. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you, Vannessa. 
Okay.  We're back in session.  Well, is there 

 

16 

The only reason I mention the San Francisco 

an OPM person chair the working group -- not me, not the 
FPRAC Chairman, because the working group will be reporting 
back to the FPRAC Chairman -- have all the Labor members 
involved, all the Management members involved in the working 
group, and the purpose would be to start out with  the San 
Francisco locality pay area and see how the FPRAC 
recommendation might be implemented for that part of the 
country. 
 
locality area is that that's the one that OPM staff have 
already started to work on, and we have not quite reached a 
point where we could share information with the members of 
what would be the working group, but I think that's a much 
better alternative than what I was thinking originally, 
which was, say, have the members of FPRAC look at a table of 
contents, for example, when a table of contents might be 
ready, and then to look at data piecemeal. 
I think it's a better idea to look at one locality 
 
pay area first, and then if the members of the working group 
have suggestions for things they would like to have added or 
looked at a different way, then we can take that template 
 

 

17 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any questions or comments or 

and apply it to all the other parts of the country we'd be 
looking at, but all along the way, we'd keep the Labor and 
Management members aware of what we were looking at, and 
everybody would be as fully involved as possible. 
 
reactions? 
 
MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  I very much would want us to 
start with either the Joint Base in New Jersey or Monroe 
County, Pennsylvania, rather than San Francisco. 
 
I think that just, you know, Mark's suggestion of 
a place to start and a place to create the template is just 
the kind of thing that we'd like to be involved in from the 
get-go. 
 
I'm not really sure I understand how -- you know, 
what you're saying, to be honest, but if what you're saying 
is that you've changed your mind and now you are fine with 
union involvement at every stage of the study -- is that 
what you're saying? 
 
involvement early on. 
 
 

MR. ALLEN:  In one respect, yeah.  We need your 

MS. SIMON:  Okay.  Well -- 

 

18 

But at the very start would be selecting the 

MS. SIMON:  I think that -- 
MR. ALLEN:  -- so everybody can look at it. 
MS. SIMON:  Yeah, okay.  Well, I'm delighted that 

MR. ALLEN:  It won't be at the very start because 
 
in order to get started to kick off things, we need to have 
data put together -- 
 
 
 
you have changed your mind.  That's great. 
 
location that you start to focus on, and I think that as a 
group, we have Senator Casey and that New Jersey 
congressional delegation who have written to us and 
expressed their very, very strong interest in getting going 
on this, that we start there because they've asked for 
information, and that's where -- that's where some of the 
most pressing issues continue to broil. 
 
look at the entire New York locality area and what would be 
impacted there that would capture both Fort Dix-McGuire Air 
Force Base -- 
 
 
 

MR. ALLEN:  I think what we would have to do is 

MS. SIMON:  Exactly.  Right. 
MR. ALLEN:  -- and the Army depot. 

 

19 

MS. SIMON:  Right, right. 
MR. ALLEN:  Okay. 
MS. SIMON:  And so I'd start there. 
MR. SHULMAN:  The reason San Francisco was 

 
 
 
 
suggested, as Mark said, is because there's already work 
that has begun on collecting information.  Also, there's 
less that's really going to be involved in that particular 
study.  It makes it easier to get people -- 
 
MS. SIMON:  I guess it's Tracy.  Tracy Army Depot 
would be the one.  I realize that, but since every place is 
ultimately going to be studied, you know, we could put that 
to the side for a minute and get to New York which is where 
the action is. 
 
tried to convey to this group, a day doesn't go by that, you 
know, I don't hear from congressional offices and/or Members 
who want attention to this matter, and so that's where -- 
that's where this -- those are the people who asked for, you 
know, our attention to be paid to this issue, and I think 
that, you know, they want information.  And so I think we 
should start with them. 
 

That's where -- I mean, you know, we -- as I've 

 

20 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I have to say just from my 

I'm wondering, is it necessary -- I hate to 

 
perspective, this interchange is a very good illustration of 
the value-added that Labor participation brings to this 
process.  So, for example, the choice of where you start the 
study is something that is an important question in and of 
itself. 
 
belabor this.  I would like us to move on fairly soon if we 
can, but is it necessary to have something in writing, so 
it's clear how we're proceeding? 
 
 
that, and then we can make sure everybody is on the same 
page and we understand exactly what the process is going 
forward? 
 
simple. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  That's fine.  Simple is good. 
 
  
And then unless there's some further discussion 
right now, we could wait for that, get closure on it, and 
then proceed?  Is that okay? 
 

MS. SIMON:  I think that would be a good idea. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Do you want to take a crack at 

MR. ALLEN:  Sure.  It would be something pretty 

 

21 

MR. ALLEN:  Yeah. 
MS. SIMON:  Yes.  Sounds good. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  All right.  Very good.  Well, 

That brings up old business.  Some of these 

The special pay practice for USACE lock and dam, 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Why don't we try to touch on 

 
 
 
thank you.  I think that's progress. 
 
matters, we have elected to refer to our work group.  I 
believe maybe even all of them, but if there's any 
discussion of any of these now -- Lee County.  Anything on 
Lee County? 
 
 
it in the work group at least, because we do have to at some 
point get closure on it. 
 
Army Corps of Engineers lock and dam? 
 
 
 
where we are on that? 
 
report with a recommendation to keep the pay practice 
 

MS. SIMON:  Can I ask a question? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Sure. 
MS. SIMON:  Could you just refresh my memory about 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Management has prepared a 

 

22 

MR. ALLEN:  We were awaiting any feedback from the 

unchanged, and that's a fairly lengthy and complicated 
analysis.  And we do need to take a look at it. 
MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  At some point, we ought to 
 
actually make a decision about when we're going to take a 
look at it. 
 
committee members if they reached out to any of the union 
locals or if Army has any further opinion about the issue 
since it's all Army Corps of Engineers' employees, to see 
what their feelings are, if it's something that we've been 
missing over the years about how they actually work. 
 
calls on this.  I mean, I think we've been through these 
issues where people might have officially different duty 
stations, but they are moving around in the course of 
performing their jobs, in and out of different wage areas, 
and they really aren't -- they describe themselves as being 
an integrated work unit in spite of where they might have 
their duty station on the river. 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  Well, I've had a flurry of telephone 

I know, literally, nothing about this subject, but 

 

23 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Why don't we maybe devote a 

MR. ALLEN:  We can talk about it later. 
MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  The South 

they -- they don't think it's practical to be paid 
differently, depending on what spot on the river they start 
their day. 
 
little time in the work group to figuring out how we tackle 
this one, too?  I'm going to move on now unless there's 
interest in continuing discussion. 
 
 
 
Bend-Mishawaka MSA, I guess that was something else we were 
going to defer or take up in the work group, unless there's 
some interest in discussing it right now. 
 
that one, too? 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  That was, I guess it was, a 
split MSA, Indiana, Michigan.  It's an issue of moving one 
county. 
 
 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  Which direction it goes? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah. 
MR. ALLEN:  In that MSA, there were some employees 

MS. SIMON:  And what's that?  Could we refresh on 

 

24 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So that brings up new 

First one, 564-MGT-1, definition of 

that would have been negatively impacted, so we wanted to 
defer to the working group to determine whether MSAs are 
still a relevant criterion for the committee to consider 
throughout the country. 
 
business, and we have five items, so let's see how far we 
can get. 
 
Killeen-Temple-Fort Hood, Texas, MSA.  Mark, would you like 
to summarize that one? 
MR. ALLEN:  Yes.  It's 564-MGT-1, the redefinition 
 
of Killeen-Temple-Fort Hood, Texas, metropolitan statistical 
area.  Fort Hood is the host activity for the Waco wage 
area, and the metropolitan area is split.  What we are 
recommending is that we redefine, I think it's, Lampasas 
County -- 
 
 
 
 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  Yep. 
MR. ALLEN:  -- to the -- 
MS. SIMON:  I've been there. 
MR. ALLEN:  -- Waco area of application. 
MS. SIMON:  And there's nobody in Lampasas. 

 

25 

Fort Hood has more than 800 employees, and is the 

All the other criteria are not really all that 

MR. ALLEN:  Nobody in that county.  There are 0 

 
FWS employees in Lampasas County. 
 
heart of the survey area.  Attachment 2 is the regulatory 
criteria analysis.  Basically, what this boils down to is 
that we looked at the central part of the MSA, and we 
measured distance.  We measured distance from the core 
county (Bell County), from the largest FWS employer in that 
county, which is Fort Hood, to the host installation in the 
Waco survey area, which is also Fort Hood, so you really 
can't get any closer to the heart of the survey area than 
measuring from the host installation to the host 
installation.  The distance is 0 miles. 
 
significant in the determination.  There's a map at 
Attachment 1.  The Killeen-Temple-Fort Hood MSA is the one 
in green, and we're recommending that the county be joined 
up as an area of application county to the Waco wage area.  
It should be pretty cut and dry. 
 
discussion? 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Are there any questions or 

 

26 

Which brings up 564-MGT-2, definition of College 

MR. ALLEN:  This one is actually very similar, 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So 564-MGT-1 has been 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there a consensus to adopt 

 
 
this? 
 
 
adopted. 
 
Station-Bryan, Texas, MSA. 
 
also dealing with the Waco wage area.  What we are 
recommending is that Burleson County be redefined from the 
Austin wage area to the Waco wage area. 
 
private sector employment, and kind and sizes of private 
industrial establishments favors moving it to the Waco wage 
area as an area of application. 
 
County is in the southwestern corner of the College 
Station-Bryan MSA, and we're just recommending that it be 
moved up into the Waco area of application. 
 
 

Distance and similarities in overall population, 

If you look at the map on Attachment 1, Burleson 

MS. SIMON:  And you're recommending this for what 

 

27 

MR. ALLEN:  So that we're no longer splitting the 

MS. SIMON:  Splitting an MSA. 
MR. ALLEN:  As has happened pretty frequently in 

reason? 
 
metropolitan statistical area. 
 
 
other parts of the country, as rural counties have been 
added to metropolitan areas based on commuting, that's 
impacted the definitions of Federal Wage System wage areas. 
 You have to define every county to a wage area.  In a lot 
of these cases, there are no Federal Wage System employees, 
so it makes it a little easier to deal with. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is this change in MSA based on 
the 2010 Census, or is this left over from the 2000 Census? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  This would be left over from the 2000 
Census, but OMB has had a practice of making changes to MSAs 
for several years.  They haven't done any in the last couple 
years that I remember, but I think this one probably 
happened relatively early on based on population or -- well, 
I don't think commuting would have changed.  Population may 
have changed.  There's a threshold for the minimum 
population in a county for it to be considered metropolitan. 
 

 

28 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any other questions or 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  Well, I have a problem with 

MR. ALLEN:  Distance to the city favors Waco, and 

 
discussion about this one? 
 
this one, I guess.  You know, distance doesn't favor either 
Waco or Austin.  Commuting patterns doesn't favor either 
Waco or Austin. 
 
similarities in a rural population, in private sector 
employment, and kinds and sizes of private industrial 
establishments, criteria favor Waco. 
MS. SIMON:  Where is Waco? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  Where is Waco? 
 
 
MS. SIMON:  The county, the City of Waco. 
MR. ALLEN:  It's in between Austin and Dallas. 
 
 
MS. SIMON:  No.  I'm saying which county is it in. 
 Is it in McLennan County? 
 
it? 
 
 
wraps around sort of the survey area for the Austin wage 
 

MS. SIMON:  It's in McLennan County? 
MR. ALLEN:  Yes.  It's a little awkward in that it 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  It looks like McLennan, isn't 

 

29 

MR. ALLEN:  We'd have to have a rationale for 

MS. SIMON:  Well, I mean, obviously, it would be 

area, but -- 
 
MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  I was going to say it looks to 
me, just looking at this map, that it would make more sense 
to bring Robertson and Brazos into Austin than to bring 
Burleson into Waco. 
 
that.  I'm not really seeing a rationale from the regulatory 
criteria analysis to move Robertson and Brazos into Austin. 
 We see the -- 
 
the -- the rationale would be the unification of MSA and 
distance and commuting and, you know, the similarities and, 
you know, whatever, the whole list of criteria.  I don't 
think that -- I don't see the argument for Waco. 
 
 
understand the argument for Waco over Austin. 
 
 
it's -- it's kind of a judgment call completely because the 
factors favor neither one nor the other, and -- 
 

MR. ALLEN:  It's -- 
MS. SIMON:  I think all the same arguments that 

MR. ALLEN:  It's on page 1 of attachment 2. 
MS. SIMON:  No, I'm saying I -- okay.  I don't 

 

30 

MR. ALLEN:  Are you looking at the same chart that 

MR. ALLEN:  Yeah.  Under Distance, it lists Waco 

MS. SIMON:  And we're trying to unify the MSA. 
I'm looking at page 3.  Summary of Regulatory 

 
I'm looking at? 
 
 
Criteria Analysis? 
 
as being the closest city. 
MS. SIMON:  Well, why does it say "Waco/neither"? 
 
 
MR. ALLEN:  "Neither" is for the host 
installation.  We typically give both measures. 
MS. SIMON:  What's the difference? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  The host installation might -- 
 
MS. SIMON:  No, no, no, no.  Excuse me.  How many 
 
miles is -- are the counties from Waco versus how many miles 
are the counties from Austin? 
 
says Waco is 86 miles away. 
 
 
 
-- 
 

MS. SIMON:  Okay.  Wait a second. 
MR. ALLEN:  Austin is 103 miles. 
MS. SIMON:  Wait a second.  Are you talking about 

MR. ALLEN:  It's in Attachment 2, first page.  It 

MR. ALLEN:  That's 103 miles versus 86 miles, and 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, if there's not 

MR. ALLEN:  The members need more time to look at 

 

31 

MR. ALLEN:  Page 1. 
MS. SIMON:  Attachment.  Austin, 103 miles versus 

MS. SIMON:  To the survey area. 
MR. ALLEN:  Between hosts is 102 miles, either to 

 
 
is 102 miles. 
 
the distance between -- 
 
 
Fort Hood or Camp Mabry, Camp Mabry being host for the 
Austin survey area. 
 
consensus, shall we defer this one, or do you want -- 
 
it.  This is not really an urgent issue, there are no FWS 
employees affected , and there's no survey time schedule 
that's pressing with this one. 
 
 
 
County -- I'm sorry -- abolishment of Montgomery, 
Pennsylvania, nonappropriated fund Federal Wage System wage 
area, 564-MGT-3, and this is a fun one.  Do you want to 
 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  Why don't we defer this one. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  We can do that. 
That brings up (c), abolishment of Montgomery 

 

32 

From time to time because of things like Defense 

summarize it for us, Mark? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  Okay.  I have to make a little bit of 
a mental leap with this one because we're no longer dealing 
with appropriated fund wage areas.  We're dealing with 
nonappropriated fund areas, which we handle differently. 
 
Base Closure and Realignment Commission recommendations, 
military installations close, and when they close, the 
nonappropriated fund activities that would have supported 
the troops on the bases are no longer necessary.  So, they 
are shut down.  
 
In the Montgomery, Pennsylvania, nonappropriated 
fund wage area, I believe that Willow Grove -- its official 
name is the Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Willow 
Grove -- has already closed.  There is a local wage survey, 
however, that is still scheduled to be conducted out of that 
installation in August of this year, and that fact makes it 
fairly urgent for OPM to receive a recommendation from FPRAC 
on how to handle the abolishment of the Montgomery wage area 
and the allocation of the remaining counties to nearby 
nonappropriated fund wage areas. 
 

 

33 

This recommendation went through the DoD Wage 

 
Committee and there was concurrence from the Wage Committee 
earlier this year.  The Management recommendation on this is 
that we redefine Montgomery and Philadelphia Counties, 
Pennsylvania, as areas of application to the Burlington, New 
Jersey, nonappropriated fund wage area; that we redefine 
Chester County, Pennsylvania, as an area of application to 
the Harford, Maryland, nonappropriated fund wage area; that 
we redefine Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, as an area of 
application to Morris, New Jersey, wage area; and because 
there are no longer employees in Bucks County, New Jersey, 
that it be removed -- 
 
 
 
 
redefinition proposal, and it does impact employees, 
primarily at VA medical centers, at different locations 
around Philadelphia. 
 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  That's Pennsylvania. 
MR. ALLEN:  -- from the wage area definition. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any questions or discussion? 
MR. ALLEN:  This is actually a fairly complex 

MS. SIMON:  And it lowers their pay? 
MR. ALLEN:  In some cases, I believe it does.  I 

 

34 

MS. SIMON:  If we could have a few minutes, we 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Do you want to caucus, or do 

MS. SIMON:  Well -- 
MR. ALLEN:  But at the meeting coming up in July, 

haven't looked closely at that.  Ideally, we don't need to 
move on this one at the meeting today. 
 
 
I think we need to figure out what to do. 
 
could possibly do this. 
 
you want to discuss it right in here? 
 
 
 
 
McGuire has one wage area for nonappropriated fund. 
 
expanded pretty dramatically for the nonappropriated fund 
system over the years, because that is the largest and 
active military base in that area now. 
 
though?  Philadelphia gets redefined.  What's -- 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  I just want to read through this. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  A moment of silence. 
[Laughter.] 
MS. SIMON:  So it's interesting, Joint Base 

MR. ALLEN:  It's one of those wage areas that has 

MS. SIMON:  So Philadelphia gets abolished, too, 

MR. ALLEN:  Philadelphia would be part of the 

 

35 

MS. SIMON:  And the rationale for doing this is 

MR. ALLEN:  It's actually Montgomery County, which 

Burlington area of application. 
 
that Philadelphia County doesn't have enough nonappropriated 
fund FWS employees to be its own nonappropriated fund wage 
area? 
 
is the current survey area.  None of the other area of 
application counties in the current Montgomery NAF wage area 
have the capability of conducting a -- 
 
MS. SIMON:  Okay.  But you've got -- but I'm just 
saying you've got Philadelphia.  Instead of -- you're making 
Philadelphia an area of application of another existing wage 
area rather than having it be a nonappropriated wage area 
itself. 
 
 
because there's not enough jobs in Philadelphia? 
 
fund employees remaining in those counties to do a wage 
survey. 
 
 

MR. ALLEN:  That's right. 
MS. SIMON:  And the reason you're doing that is 

MR. ALLEN:  There are not enough nonappropriated 

MS. SIMON:  So it's basically 14 workers in a VA 

 

36 

Which brings up the item (d) under New Business, 

[Pause.] 
MS. SIMON:  I won't be able to vote on this today. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  I guess one way or 

medical center who are going to -- whose positions will have 
their pay cut. 
 
 
 
another, we'll need to make a decision at the next meeting 
on it. 
 
abolishment of the Monmouth, New Jersey, nonappropriated 
fund wage area.  Mark, do you want to summarize that one, 
please? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  This is another Management proposal 
dealing with a nonappropriated fund wage area impacted by 
base closure.  In this case, it's the closure of Fort 
Monmouth.  At this time, actually there are only 12 
nonappropriated fund wage system employees, and they are 
located at the Naval Weapons Station Earle, and there are 
not enough employees remaining in the wage area to continue 
the wage area as a separate wage area. 
 
be added to the Burlington, New Jersey, nonappropriated fund 
 

What we are recommending is that Monmouth County 

 

37 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any questions or discussion? 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Are they negatively impacted by the 

MR. ALLEN:  I have not taken a look at that, so -- 
[Pause.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Do folks need more time on 

MR. ALLEN:  I believe we have a little more time 

wage area.  Again, there are some employees who are affected 
by this proposal. 
 
 
proposal, the employees? 
 
 
 
this one? 
 
to handle this one since the order date normally would be in 
January.  Is that correct? 
 
 
 
 
this one? 
 
 
one? 
 
 

MR. BECHT:  No.  This one is an August survey now. 
MR. ALLEN:  It is in August? 
[Pause.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So what's your decision on 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So there's consensus on this 

MS. SIMON:  Yes. 

 

38 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So 564-MGT-4 has been 

 
adopted, and that brings up the last item of new business on 
the agenda, which is the letter from AFGE regarding a 
proposal to redefine Monroe County, Pennsylvania, from the 
Scranton-Wilkes-Barre wage area to the New York wage area. 
 
Jackie, do you want to summarize this one for us? 
 
MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  Well, I mean, I think it's 
pretty straightforward and simple.  We recognize and don't 
dispute the fact that Monroe County is closer to Scranton 
than it is to New York City, but the commuting data 
overwhelmingly would suggest that Montgomery County -- or 
Monroe County -- excuse me -- is a part of the New York City 
labor market, as was recognized by the Federal Salary 
Council when Monroe County was made an area of application 
of the New York City GS locality. 
 
as the primary criterion, we believe that because of the 
preponderance of the data on commuting and the importance of 
commuting to the definition of a labor market, that Monroe 
County should be made -- should be redefined as part of the 
New York City wage area. 
 

And so even though our regulation lists distance 

 

39 

MS. SIMON:  I don't want it to be deferred.  I 

I mean, I understand that it should be subjected 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any questions or discussion? 
 
 
MR. ALLEN:  What I would recommend that we do with 
this is defer any decision on the merits while we're working 
on this issue in the working group that we have proposed to 
be established. 
 
would like to schedule a vote. 
 
to the analysis according to the existing regulatory 
criteria that all other proposed changes, but I don't want 
to defer it to whenever it is that -- the study will be 
completed. 
 
this today. 
 
 
disagree on this one and defer it for now. 
 
unless there are other new business items.  Anything else 
that needs to come before us this morning? 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  That's fine. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  We will agree to 

MR. ALLEN:  We're not in a position to vote on 

That brings up the possibility of adjourning, 

[No audible response.] 

 

40 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, the motion to adjourn 

MR. PHELPS:  So moved. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Second? 
MR. ALLEN:  Second. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  There's no objections? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing none, we are 

 
would be -- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adjourned.  Thank you, and we will convene in about -- well, 
I guess it will be a short one today, but we will convene in 
about 10 minutes in the small Pendleton Room for our work 
group. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

•-•-• 

 

