 

1 

562nd FPRAC 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management 

Washington, D.C. 

Thursday, April 21, 2011 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
  Management Members 
  MARK ALLEN, Office of Personnel Management 
  JOHN EHRBAR, Department of Defense 
  CARLOS SAAVEDRA, Department of Navy 
  DREW DAVIS, Department of Army 
  THURSTAN HUNTER, Department of Veterans Affairs 
 
  Labor Members 
  DENNIS PHELPS, Metals Trade Department 
  J. DAVID COX, AFGE 
  JACQUELINE SIMON, AFGE 
  SARAH SUSZCZYK, NAGE 
  TERRY GARNETT, ACT 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors: 
  MADELINE GONZALEZ, Office of Personnel Management 
  CHARLES D. GRIMES III, Office of Personnel Management 
  TERRI AVONDET, Office of Personnel Management 
  JEROME MIKOWICZ, Office of Personnel Management 
  CHRIS WALLACE, Office of Personnel Management 
  STEVE RUMBLE, Department of Defense 
  JIM BRADY, Department of Defense 
  CRAIG JERABEK, Department of Defense 
  HANK ROVAN, Department of Defense 
  DAWNA POWELL, Department of Defense 
  BILL DOUGAN, NFFE 
  WILLIAM FENAUGHTY, NFFE 
  DIANA WILLIAMS, Air Force 
  MARY AUSBURGER, Air Force 
  SHARISSE BROWN, Department of Veterans Affairs 
  ANRIKA CORBIN, Department of Veterans Affairs 
  
Recording Secretary:  VANNESSA BROWN 
 
 [Transcript prepared from digital audio provided by FPRAC.] 

 

 

2 

C O N T E N T S 

 
 
I.    Opening/Announcements 
      • Introductions......................................3 
      • Announcements 
        - ACT Presentation on March 2011 -- The Federal 
          Wage System and the Role of the Federal 
          Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee, 562-OC-1.....4 
        - Articles about Tobyhanna Army Depot from 
          Scranton and Wilkes-Barre Newspapers, 562-OC-2...5 
 
II.   Review of the Minutes of the 561st Meeting...........5 
 
III.  Old Business 
      • Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2..........5 
      • Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns 
        - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on  
          Survey Issues Work Group, 561-OC-1...............5 
 
IV.   New Business 
      • Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal 
        Wage System Lock and Damn Employees, 562-MGT-1.....5 
      • Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 
        Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2..........10 
      • Draft Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee 
        Annual Summary 2010, 562-OC-3.....................14 
 
 

•-•-• 

 

 

3 

P R O C E E D I N G S 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Welcome, everyone.  Good morning.  

MR. PHELPS:  Dennis Phelps, representing the Metal 

MR. COX:  J. David Cox with the American Federation of 

 
 
Welcome to our 562nd meeting of FPRAC.  My name is Sheldon 
Friedman, Chairman, and why don't we go around the room and 
introduce ourselves, starting here. 
 
Trades Department. 
 
Government Employees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Affairs. 
 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  Jackie Simon, AFGE. 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE. 
MR. GARNETT:  Terry Garnett, ACT. 
MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 
MR. EHRBAR:  John Ehrbar, Department of Defense. 
MR. SAAVEDRA:  Carlos Saavedra, Department of the Navy. 
MR. DAVIS:  Drew Davis, Department of Army. 
MR. HUNTER:  Thurstan Hunter, Department of Veterans 

MR. GRIMES:  Chuck Grimes, OPM. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Please continue over here. 
MS. AVONDET:  Terri Avondet, OPM. 

 

 

4 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 
MR. RUMBLE:  Steve Rumble, Department of Defense. 
MS. AUGSBURGER:  Mary Augsburger, Air Force. 
MS. WILLIAMS:  Diana Williams, Air Force. 
MS. POWELL:  Dawna Powell, Department of Defense. 
MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, Department of Defense. 
MR. JERABEK:  Craig Jerabek, Department of Defense. 
MR. ROVAN:  Hank Rovan, DoD. 
MR. WALLACE:  Chris Wallace, OPM. 
MS. BROWN:  Sharisse Brown, Department of the VA. 
MS. CORBIN:  Anrika Corbin, Veterans Affairs. 
MR. DOUGAN:  Bill Dougan, National Federation of 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal Employees. 
 
get away without you saying -- 
 
 
 
 
 
a copy of a presentation that I made at the Association of 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Jerry, we're not going to let you 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  Jerry Mikowicz, OPM. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  A couple of -- 
MS. BROWN:  Vannessa Brown, OPM. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you, Vannessa. 
A couple of announcements.  I put in people's packages 

 

 

5 

Also a couple of newspaper articles on a hot issue.  

Have people had a chance to review the minutes from our 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, can we accept them by 

Civilian Technicians meeting, thinking that it might be of 
interest to the Committee.  They kindly invited me.  I also would 
welcome any feedback that members may have on the content. 
 
The newspaper articles relate to Tobyhanna Army Depot in 
Pennsylvania. 
 
last meeting?  I believe they were sent to you. Are there any 
corrections to those minutes? 
 
 
unanimous consent?  Okay, very good. 
 
have decided to address both of them in our work group that's 
going to be meeting shortly after the conclusion of this session. 
 So, with your permission, we'll hold off on those, unless 
there's any discussion that's needed now about either of them 
now. 
 
happy to report, we finally have something on the pay practice 
for lock and dam employees of the Army Corps of Engineers.  It 

That brings up two items of old business. I believe we 

That brings up new business.  The first item, I'm very 

 

 

6 

Mark, would you please summarize the Management 

was developed pursuant to a request from then-Representative 
Boozman sometime ago. 
 
position? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  Yes.  Document 562-MGT-1 is a review of the 
 special wage schedule pay practice for Federal Wage System lock 
and dam employees established under the Code of Federal 
Regulations.  It's a practice that dates back in its current form 
to the mid 1970s, and I don't think this committee has taken a 
close look at the number of employees affected by the lock and 
dam schedule, where they're located, and what impact that has on 
the wage rates since the pay practice was set up back in the 
'70s. 
 
So I think it is a good time just to reacquaint 
ourselves with what this workforce is actually like, where 
they're located, and the reasons why they're paid differently 
than they would be if a regular wage schedule were to be applied 
for each employee. 
 
look at the pay practice in 5 CFR 532.269, and we found out that 
there are 1,673 employees who are paid from this special wage 

The Management members of the committee have taken a 

 

 

7 

schedule practice. 
 
The way the special wage schedule practice works is 
that if there is a navigation channel that the Army Corps of 
Engineers is responsible for within the United States, the 
employees who work on any lock or dam facilities that are 
associated with the navigation features of usually a river are 
paid from the wage schedule that applies to their Army Corps of 
Engineers district headquarters. 
 
The effect of this pay practice on the employees is 
that a little more than half are paid according to what their 
regular wage schedule would be anyway.  The rest of the employees 
are paid from higher or lower lock and dam wage schedules. 
The rationale for the pay practice is laid out on page 
 
2, about halfway down.  The idea behind the special wage schedule 
practice was that you wanted to take recognition of the fact that 
lock and dam installations were situated along the course of 
certain rivers flowing through various Army Corps of Engineers 
district areas, that virtually all administrative activities were 
performed at the district office; promotions, training, and 
recruitment were districtwide in nature, rather than just limited 
to the very local area; that there was substantial mobility of 

 

 

8 

employees between installations; that traveling repair parties 
working out of the district headquarters office were paid from 
the wage schedule that applied to the district headquarters wage 
schedule, and those employees were in frequent contact with lock 
and dam employees who were normally situated at different 
locations along the navigation channel.  It also recognizes that 
lock and dam personnel have unique qualifications that don't 
readily transfer over to the regular wage grade workforce, and 
the final reason that was cited back in the '70s was to allow for 
greater administrative and operational efficiency. 
 
practices that currently exist, and our recommendation to the 
committee is that we leave the special pay practice in place as 
it's currently defined. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any questions or discussion? 
 
 
MS. SIMON:  I understand the concept of administrative 
efficiency as a rationale for continuation of the current policy. 
 Does it have to be all or nothing?  There are, you know, 
possibly locations where there would be a rationale for an 
exception to the special rates.  Was that possibility considered? 
 

Management members have taken a close look at the pay 

MR. ALLEN:  I think we would have to look back to the 

 

 

9 

administrative record back in the '70s as to why decisions were 
made back at that time to treat everybody the same. 
MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  Okay. 
 
MR. PHELPS:  I believe also meeting with the Army Corps 
 
a few years ago -- I don't know if they've enacted it or not, but 
they were having discussions about their work crews going from 
district to district rather than just having work crews in one 
district, so that would kind of put a different spin on having 
them paid out of the one headquarters because the traveling crews 
would have contact with people just in that district, so that 
might be something we might need to find out about, too, before 
we make any determination on this. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  This is obviously a complicated 
 
issue, and folks have only had this report for a few days.  So 
I'm not suggesting we need to make any decision on it today if 
we're not ready to. 
 
point.  We're certainly open to receiving additional information 
from committee members.  Maybe there is something we're not aware 
of that we should be taking a look at. 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So what's the best way to proceed, 

MR. ALLEN:  I think I would view this as a starting 

 

 

10 

MS. SIMON:  I would like a little bit more time to 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Any more questions or 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, we can move on to the next 

then? 
 
absorb this, if that's all right with everybody. 
 
discussion right now on this issue? 
 
 
item of new business, definition of South Bend-Mishawaka 
Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2. 
Mark, would you please summarize that for us? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  Okay.  In 562-MGT-2, the reason this is 
 
being brought to the committee is because OPM has a regulation 
that says that metropolitan statistical areas should not be split 
by wage area boundaries unless there is a really good reason for 
splitting a metropolitan statistical area. 
 
 
between the Fort Wayne, Indiana, and Southwestern Michigan wage 
area, and there are two counties involved here, Cass County, 
Michigan, which is adjacent to the survey area for the 
Southwestern Michigan wage area, and St. Joseph County, Indiana, 

This is another MSA that needs to be reviewed by FPRAC. 
The South Bend-Mishawaka, Indiana-Michigan MSA is split 

 

 

11 

On page 3, we have the rationale for the recommendation 

which is not adjacent to either the Fort Wayne, Indiana, or 
Southwestern Michigan survey areas, but it is closer distancewise 
to Southwestern Michigan survey area. 
In this recommendation, the Management members propose 
 
that St. Joseph County be redefined to the Southwestern Michigan 
Area of application.  This would affect approximately 11 Federal 
Wage System employees, and I believe that all 11 of them would be 
placed on a lower wage schedule. 
 
based on our standard analysis of the regulatory criteria.  The 
determining factor among the various factors that we looked at -- 
in this case, would be distance -- and the fact that part of the 
MSA is adjacent to the Southwestern Michigan survey area also 
plays a role in the recommendation. 
 
We've got maps as one of the attachments, which give an 
idea of where St. Joseph and Cass Counties are located.  It's the 
sort of red area in the northwestern central part of the first 
map. 
 
 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I'd call that orange. 
MR. ALLEN:  No, it's kind of like a tomato. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 

 

 

12 

[Laughter.] 
MS. SIMON:  Wait a second.  There's two St. Joseph.  

MR. ALLEN:  Yeah. We're referring to the one that's in 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  One in Indiana, one in Michigan. 
MS. SIMON:  -- cantaloupe color.  Okay.  That's why I 

 
 
That's why it's confusing.  There's two St. Joseph Counties.  One 
of them is kind of -- 
 
 
was like what is going on here, they're already both in Southwest 
Michigan, but they're not.  One is in Fort Wayne. 
 
the red-orange-tomato color. 
MS. SIMON:  What is the difference in distance? 
 
 
MR. ALLEN:  It's noted in Attachment 2.  It's 75 miles 
to Kalamazoo, Michigan, 91 miles to Fort Wayne, Indiana, and then 
if we were to look at the host installations, it would be 90 
miles to the VA Medical Center in Battle Creek in the 
Southwestern Michigan survey area, and 99 miles to the Indiana 
Air National Guard Base, Fort Wayne, in the Fort-Wayne-Marion 
survey area. 
 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  That's a more or less neutral distance. 
MR. ALLEN:  Yeah, that's one way we could look at it. 
MS. SIMON:  It kind of depends on your Point A and your 

 

 

13 

MR. ALLEN:  I think at least in my mind generally, if a 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any other questions or discussion? 
MR. PHELPS:  What other rationale is there aside from 

Point B. 
 
county is more than 60 miles away from a survey area, it's not 
really all that likely going to have a major impact on wage rates 
within the county that we're looking at. 
 
 
the distances you want to move it to lower the rate of the 11 
employees there?  I'm like Jackie over here looking at 75 miles 
compared to 90 miles.  That's, you know, no big differences as 
far as location, I would think. 
 
MR. ALLEN:  I think what we're really dealing with here 
is a kind of strict interpretation of OPM's regulatory criteria, 
which says that we should not split metropolitan areas, and in 
some cases, in some parts of the country, that's going to have a 
negative impact.  In other cases, it's going to have a positive 
impact. 
What I might suggest is since we deferred a couple of 
 
other reviews, that we don't necessarily have to move quickly on 
this.  We have a working group established and it may be a good 
idea for us to take another look at whether MSA criteria really 

 

 

14 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  That brings up the next item of new 

MR. PHELPS:  Sounds reasonable to me. 
MR. ALLEN:  So I guess we'll defer this to our work 

work very well within the Federal Wage System in all cases.  
Sometimes they might have anomalous results that don't really 
make a whole lot of sense. 
 
 
group as well. 
 
business which is the review and approval of the FPRAC Annual 
Report for 2010.  I know people have not had it for very long, 
but hopefully, you've had a chance to take a look at it. 
 
it? 
 
does is it reflects pretty much a summary of everything that took 
place during calendar year 2010, without getting into too much 
detail on what position the Labor and Management members took on 
an issue, which was something we decided to do back in the mid 
1990s when there was no longer a congressional requirement for 
having advisory committees report to the relevant committees on 
the Hill.  So this document is more or less for the committee's 
records, which makes it easier for the members and those who are 

Any changes you want to recommend?  Any discussion of 

MR. ALLEN:  I think, Mr. Chairman, what this report 

 

 

15 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So is there a consensus to adopt 

Is there any other business that needs to come before 

interested in the committee's activities to look back and see 
what happened at certain times in the committee's history. 
 
this as our annual report for last year? 
ATTENDEE:  [Speaking off mic.] 
 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  It's been adopted.  Thank 
you. 
 
us today? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  I don't have any new business, but I would 
like to acknowledge for the record that this is Mr. Ehrbar's last 
FPRAC meeting.  He's going to be retiring for the second time, 
and he's told me he's not coming back again. 
 
 
committee in 1993, which was around about the first meeting I 
went to, and he has represented the Department of Defense at, I 
believe it is, 83 FPRAC meetings, and he managed to do that even 
while taking an eight-year break.  He went on a hiatus for a 
while, but we're glad he came back, and we're thankful for your 
service over the many years that you've represented the 

[Laughter.] 
MR. ALLEN:  John made his first appearance at the 

 

 

16 

I won't name anybody by a particular name, but I've got 

Department of Defense. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Would you like to say anything? 
 
MR. EHRBAR:  1993 was a long time ago.  All of the 
faces were different, other than my own.  I've had the good 
fortune to have excellent people on this side of the table and 
excellent people on the other side of the table.  We never threw 
shoes at each other, sometimes went outside and talked things 
over. 
 
friends from AFGE.  I've got friends from military. 
I think this is a great committee, and it does good, 
 
solid work, and where we can air our differences here, I think 
the better off we are.  I think all want the same thing, and 
that's the best thing for our Department and our employees -- our 
Departments and our employees, so thanks for the nice ride. 
 
I am going to get in my blue BMW Z4 and head south 
until I find a warm beach. 
 
 
years of service, and we hope you don't flunk retirement this 
time. 

[Laughter.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you very much for your many 

 

 

17 

[Laughter.] 
MR. COX:  I encourage you to get out of D.C. before we 

[Laughter.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any other business? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not,a motion to adjourn would be 

 
 
make being retired against the law. 
 
 
 
 
welcome. 
 
 
 
objection to that? 
[No audible response.] 
 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We are adjourned, and in about 10 
or 15 minutes, we'll reconvene in the small Pendleton Room for 
our working group meeting.  Thank you. 
 
 
 

MR. PHELPS:  So moved. 
MR. ALLEN:  Seconded. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And seconded.  Okay.  Is there any 

•-•-• 

 

