 

1 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

 

596th FPRAC 

 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

Thursday, July 17, 2014 

 

 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management 

Washington, D.C. 20415 

 
 
 

ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Management Members: 
Mark Allen, OPM 
Seth Shulman, DoD 
David Pedersen, Navy 
Gary Buck, Army 
Stephanie Boyd, VA (via phone) 

Labor Members: 
Bill Fenaughty, MTD 
Jacque Simon, AFGE (via phone) 
Candace Archer, AFGE 
Adair Gregory, NAGE 
Steven Landis, ACT 

 
 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors: 
 
 

Brenda Roberts, Designated Federal Officer, OPM 
Madeline Gonzalez, OPM 
Jim Brady, DoD 
Becky Chaves, DoD 
Karl Fendt, DoD 
Lamar Elliott, ACT 
 

 
 
 
 
Recording Secretaries: 
 
 
 

Mike Eicher, OPM 
Terri Wallace, OPM 

[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]

 

C O N T E N T S 

2 

 586-MGT-1 

                                                       Page 
I.    Opening/Announcements 
      • Introductions.....................................4 
      • Announcements.....................................5 
 
II.   Review of the Minutes of 595th Meeting..............5 
 
III.  Old Business........................................6 
      a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2 
         - 2013 Update to Review of Lee County, Virginia, 
 
      b. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 
         Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2 
         - 2013 Update to Definition of South Bend- 
           Mishawaka, IN-MI Metropolitan Statistical 
           Area, 586-MGT-2 
      c. Letter from the American Federation of Government 
         Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC 
         review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA 
         from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to 
         the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1 
      d. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC 
         Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1 
 
 
 
      e. Review of the Augusta and Portland, ME Federal 
         Wage System Wage Areas, 578-MGT-1 
         - Alternate Analysis of the Portland, ME Federal 
           Wage System Wage Area, 580-MGT-1 
         - 2014 Update to Alternate Analysis of the 
  
 
         - Appropriated Fund Wage Areas Abolished 
           1969-1976, 594-OPM-1 
         - Employment Data for the Portland, ME Wage 
           Area, 594-OPM-2 
         - Hypothetical Payline Estimates for Augusta, ME 
           and Portsmouth, NH Using Raw Data from Outside 
           Counties, 594-DOD-1 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    - 2013 Update to Definition of 
 
 

 Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC Metropolitan 
 Statistical Area, 588-MGT-1 

 Portland, ME Federal Wage System Wage 
 Area, 593-MGT-2 

 

C O N T E N T S (continued) 

 

 
 
IV.     New Business  

3 

Page 

a.  Letter from the American Federation of  

Government Employees dated June 30, 2014, 
Recommending (1) the Six Counties in the Current 
Portland, ME Wage Area be Redefined to the 
Portsmouth, NH Wage Area; and (2) the $10.10 Per Hour 
Minimum Rate Granted to Federal Contractors by 
President Obama be Applied to FWS Wage Schedules, 
596-AFGE-1 

 
 

 

P R O C E E D I N G 

4 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone, and 

welcome to this, our 596th meeting of the Federal Prevailing 

Rate Advisory Committee.  My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chair of 

the Committee. 

 

We usually start with introductions, but I think I 

would like to make an announcement about our continuing 

difficulties with the recording devices.  Madeline, can you fill 

us in on that? 

 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Our primary recording device is not 

working very well.  Apparently, it goes in and out.  Therefore, 

we will be relying on the little recorder we have placed on the 

chair, so please speak loud and clear.  Are there any questions? 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So I take it everybody 

heard that, and I believe our DoD folks will be here fairly 

soon. 

 

So, let’s begin with introductions.  Why don't we 

start with you today, Bill? 

 

 

 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Bill Fenaughty, Metal Trades and NFFE. 

MS. ARCHER:  Candace Archer, AFGE. 

MR. GREGORY:  Adair Gregory, NAGE. 

 

5 

 

MR. LANDIS:  Steven Landis, Association of Civilian 

Technicians. 

 

 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 

MR. PEDERSEN:  David Pedersen, Navy. 

MR. BUCK:  Gary Buck, Army. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I think we have two Committee 

representatives on the phone.  Could you introduce yourselves, 

please? 

 

 

 

 

MS. BOYD:  Stephanie Boyd, VA. 

MS. SIMON:  Jacque Simon, AFGE. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So welcome, everyone. 

I do have one brief announcement, which is that at the 

last meeting, I had raised the question of whether the latest 

Portland wage survey had Labor participation, given that the 

host activity is no longer a viable activity, and I was informed 

that in fact there was some Labor participation.  I just thought 

I would let people know that. 

 

That brings up the review of the transcript of our 

last month's meeting.  Does anyone have changes beyond those we 

have already heard from you about? 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, is there any objection to 

 

6 

adopting the transcript of our last meeting? 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing no objection, the 

transcript is adopted. 

 

I think I forgot to ask the people in the room, other 

than the members, to introduce themselves, so why don't I 

correct that oversight? 

 

MS. ROBERTS:  Brenda Roberts, OPM, Designated Federal 

Officer. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, DoD. 

MS. CHAVES:  Becky Chaves, DoD. 

MR. FENDT:  Karl Fendt, DoD. 

MR. EICHER:  Mike Eicher, OPM. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez, OPM. 

MS. WALLACE:  Terri Wallace, OPM. 

MR. ELLIOTT:  Lamar Elliott.  I am with the 

Association of Civilian Technicians. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you all. 

So that brings up Old Business.  Is there anything on 

items (a) through (d) of Old Business that people would like to 

discuss this morning? 

 

[No audible response.] 

 

7 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, we can move on to item 

(e).  Nothing on (a) through (d) this morning? 

 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Well, where are we at with some of 

these things?  These items are getting pretty old. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  They are, yes. 

Well, any specific item you want to ask about right 

now, Bill? 

 

 

 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  How about (a) through (d)? 

[Laughter.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, here's what I know, and 

people can supplement that information. 

 

The Review of Lee County, Virginia, there's just not 

consensus on this item, and we haven't actually put it to a 

vote.  That's (a). 

 

 

Same for (b) and (d). 

(c) is essentially that large issue that we wrestled 

with back in 2010 and 2011, but dealing only with Monroe County, 

Pennsylvania.  That's the one on which the Director has been 

forwarded a recommendation from FPRAC, but it has not been 

implemented, and is, I guess, still being studied.  We had some 

discussion at last month's meeting about it. 

 

So that's what I know about (a) through (d).  Anybody 

 

8 

else want to add to that?  We have to deal with these items, of 

course, but there's nothing -- 

 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  I'm sorry, Sheldon.  Did you say (a), 

(b), and (c), we just don't have any consensus? 

 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  (a), (b), and (d). 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  (a), (b), and (d).  Okay. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So that brings up (e), which is 

what to do about the Portland, Maine, wage area, and we also now 

have a Labor proposal under New Business for that under 596-

AFGE-1.  What I suggest is we combine all of that into one 

discussion. 

 

So, if you'd like, I can summarize, briefly, the two 

proposals.  The Portland wage area has diminished greatly in 

employment.  The host activity, I believe, has been closed or is 

in the process of closing down.  It's no longer viable as a wage 

area; therefore, as has happened occasionally in the past, it 

falls to FPRAC to make a recommendation about how to abolish and 

redefine the counties of that wage area. 

 

The Management proposal is to redefine the abolished 

Portland, Maine, wage area counties into two separate wage 

areas.  The Portland-South Portland, Maine, MSA counties would 

be moved to the Portsmouth wage area, which already includes one 

 

9 

of the counties of that MSA in its wage area definition.  The 

remaining four counties would be defined to the Augusta, Maine, 

wage area. In addition, all current survey counties would remain 

survey counties in their new wage areas. 

 

That is the Management proposal which Labor has 

indicated is not acceptable to them, and the AFGE proposal, 

which you have before you, is to move all of the counties of the 

abolished Portland wage area into the Portsmouth wage area while 

keeping the three current Portland survey counties as survey 

counties in the Portsmouth wage area. 

 

And those are the proposals that we have before us.  

We have collected a fair amount of data and done a fair amount 

of analysis of this issue.  There are certainly arguments that 

can be made on both sides of the table.  We've looked at 

precedents from the 1990s, which was the last time wage areas 

were abolished. 

 

On the Appropriated Fund side, there were three wage 

areas, all of which were moved as a group to another wage area.  

However, before the 1990s, there were occasions when abolished 

wage areas were split between different wage areas, and we have 

a big chart showing the history of that. 

 

We had discussion in the working group about whether 

 

10 

FPRAC needed to have some sort of rule or not, about whether we 

always move abolished wage areas with all of the counties 

together in a cluster into a new wage area or retain flexibility 

on a case-by-case basis to either move them all together in a 

cluster or to split them up between different wage areas.  And 

basically, what was recommended back to FPRAC from the working 

group is that we should retain flexibility about that. 

 

We can look at rationales.  Both parties have included 

rationales with their proposals.  I'm hoping that there is a 

method of resolving this -- I don't know if there is any basis 

for a consensus on this.  I would certainly entertain any ideas 

that people have for that. 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Mr. Chairman, I think we're just down to 

an honest difference of opinion about how the wage area should 

be redefined once it is abolished, with the Management proposal 

continuing to recommend that individual counties be measured 

based on distance and the other regulatory criteria and the 

Labor proposal doing what is not precedent setting.  It's 

something that's been done repeatedly in the past, which is just 

to abolish a wage area and move every county to the nearest 

neighboring wage area.  But I don't think we have consensus on 

this proposal. 

 

11 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Is there any more 

discussion?  I guess we need a motion. 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes. 

I would also note that we are lacking participation by 

the Department of Defense, which means we only have four members 

on the Management side, and -- 

 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Stephanie is in attendance via phone, 

and Seth is on his way. 

 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Oh, okay.  Good timing. 

MR. SHULMAN:  Apologies for the late arrival. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Why don't you please introduce 

yourself, Seth, for the recorder -- loudly because we're having 

recording issues. 

 

 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  Seth Shulman, Department of Defense. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you. 

All right.  So regarding Portland, do we need a 

motion?  Any thoughts on how to handle that? 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Could I just bring Seth up to speed on 

this? 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Sure. 

MR. ALLEN:  Management’s proposal is to recommend the 

Alternate Analysis of the Portland, Maine, FWS Wage Area, under 

 

12 

593-MGT-2, and we just have an honest difference of opinion with 

Labor about how the counties of the abolished Portland wage area 

should be redefined.  So I think we're waiting now for a motion 

to be made either by Management or Labor. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Either side can make a motion to 

adopt their proposal, and we would vote first on that proposal.  

So whichever proposal carries first, if it does, it becomes the 

proposal we recommend to OPM’s Director.  Do I hear a motion by 

Management or Labor? 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  Well, we certainly make a motion to 

adopt our proposal. 

 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  We certainly make a motion to adopt 

our proposal.  It's outlined in this AFGE document. 

 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Management got to it first. 

[Laughter.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I don't know a lot about Robert's 

Rules of Order, but I think you can only have one motion on the 

floor at a time. 

 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  It depends on who went last, so they 

went last.  So ours is really the one that goes next. 

 

 

I'm just making this up. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 

 

13 

 

 

[Laughter.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I think you probably actually know 

Robert's Rules of Order. 

 

MR. ALLEN:  The way we've done this before is we would 

have the main motion under consideration, and then there could 

be a substitute motion.  I believe that's what we called it in 

the past. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  First, we need a second to Seth's 

motion. 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  I second Seth's motion. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  All right.  And then a substitute 

motion can be offered; is that correct? 

 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is somebody doing that? 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  I'd like to offer a substitute motion.  

Labor's motion is outlined in the AFGE letter. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  The substitute motion needs 

a second. 

 

 

 

MR. GREGORY:  Second. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  It's been seconded. 

So now we move to the discussion of the motion and 

substitute motion.  Who would like to kick it off?  Is there any 

 

14 

discussion? 

 

MR. LANDIS:  I would just like to bring up a point 

that the difference -- I mean, obviously, the two viewpoints 

have precedent in the past, either way, but I think that 

Management's proposal is going to harm a decent number of 

Federal employees; whereas, the Labor proposal will take care of 

those people and really not be that big of a deal as far as, you 

know, the Management side of things is concerned.  So that's all 

I have to say. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any other -- 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Well, in the past there have been 

times when we've abolished a particular wage area and moved all 

of the affected counties together into another wage area.  But 

we've also moved counties the way Management is proposing.  But, 

I'm in favor of moving all of the counties together to one wage 

area -- we are, I should say. 

 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any other discussion? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, I think I get to call the 

question, if I want to, right?  So I'll do that.  We'll vote 

first on the substitute motion.  Does that sound right to 

anybody who knows Robert's Rules of Order? 

 

15 

 

 

MS. GONZALEZ:  I think that's correct. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  All right.  So, Madeline, would 

you conduct the vote, please? 

 

MS. GONZALEZ:  I will call every organization, and 

please vote yes or no. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And just to be clear, I guess I 

should state that we're voting on Labor's substitute motion, 

which would be to move all of the counties of the abolished 

Portland wage area into the current Portsmouth wage area and to 

retain as survey counties all of the current Portland wage area 

survey counties. 

 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Okay.  I'm going to start with the 

Management side.  OPM? 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  OPM votes no. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  DoD? 

MR. SHULMAN:  DoD votes no. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Navy? 

MR. PEDERSEN:  Navy votes no. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Army? 

MR. BUCK:  Votes no. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  VA? 

MS. BOYD:  VA votes no. 

 

16 

MS. GONZALEZ:  On the Labor side, Metal Trades? 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  AFGE.  Candace? 

MS. ARCHER:  Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  AFGE.  Jacque? 

MS. SIMON:  Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  NAGE? 

MR. GREGORY:  Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  ACT? 

MR. LANDIS:  Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Mr. Chairman, it is a tie, 5 to 5. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  The Chair votes yes.  I find it 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

compelling, the fact that our current regulations require us to 

keep the MSAs together.  That automatically moves the Portland 

MSA counties into Portsmouth, and having done that, I don't see 

any reason not to move the whole thing to Portsmouth, given that 

that's a fairly common practice.  When you abolish wage areas, 

it seems to be the typical practice.  So, therefore, I vote yes. 

 

And so we have adopted the substitute motion.  So 

thank you. 

 

That brings up another New Business item, unless 

there's anything else in Old Business that people want to 

 

17 

discuss. 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  The other New Business item 

relates to the President's executive order applying a $10.10 

minimum wage to employees of Federal contractors.  The proposal 

submitted by AFGE is that we recommend to the Director that this 

same minimum be applied to FWS employees. 

 

By way of background, people may remember, we looked 

at data on this that showed very, very few folks on the 

Appropriated Fund side that make less than $10.10.  I believe 

it's about 262 employees.  I think they are located mostly in 

Puerto Rico. 

 

But on the Non-Appropriated Fund side, there were 

quite a large number of employees making less than $10.10, 

although the exact number is not known because employment 

breakdowns aren't available by step within pay grade.  The upper 

bound is 21,747.  The actual number is quite a bit less than 

that.  Half?  I don't know.  Who knows?  Pick a number.  We 

don't actually know, but it is fairly large. 

 

Of course, everybody knows about the executive order 

that was issued in January, applicable to the Federal contractor 

employees.  We have had quite a bit of discussion in the working 

 

18 

group but no consensus there.  So we now have a proposal before 

us here at FPRAC. 

 

Is there any further information that people want to 

share on this topic?  Any discussion? 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes, Mr. Chairman. 

There was a fair amount of discussion about this 

subject in the working group.  I think there are some things 

that should be repeated in the full Committee, just to bring 

everybody up to speed on where I think the administration 

currently is. 

 

The President did issue an executive order directing 

the Department of Labor to issue regulations requiring that any 

new Federal contract starting after January 2015 have a minimum 

wage provision of $10.10 an hour in it.  The Department of Labor 

has issued proposed regulations, which are available for public 

comment.  They have not yet issued the final regulations to 

implement the President's directive. 

 

That's about all I know about what's going on with the 

contractor provision that's mentioned in Labor document, 

596-AFGE-1. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any other discussion of this? 

[No audible response.] 

 

19 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there consensus to adopt the 

AFGE proposal? 

 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  No, there is not. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  There's not.  So there is no 

consensus. 

 

 

 

MR. PEDERSEN:  If I may, Mr. Chairman? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Sure. 

MR. PEDERSEN:  From the Navy perspective, just the 

impact that this would have cost-wise would be almost 

intolerable, and considering that the rate is already settled on 

the prevailing rate, we do not see a need to change or address 

that. 

 

If a local, State, or municipality implements a new 

minimum wage, we'll match that minimum wage in accordance with 

the DoD wage survey, but just arbitrarily setting a wage for the 

employees that isn't based on a true need, it's kind of a 

nonstarter. 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  We've had discussion in this room before 

about the need for a business case for such increases, and the 

mere fact that an increase has been authorized for a group of 

people does not automatically translate to the need to increase 

rates of pay for Federal employees who have shown no inclination 

 

20 

or interest in departing for private sector positions that may 

or may not be a higher wage. 

 

And as Mr. Pedersen said, the costs, not just to the 

Department of the Navy, but to the Government at large will be 

significant, and the likelihood is that, particularly for 

non-appropriated fund instrumentalities, when such organizations 

can no longer remain cost effective, they inevitably have to 

take steps to reduce payroll.  So there are always 

considerations of that nature that have to be talked about prior 

to rushing headlong to implement such a recommendation. 

 

There can certainly be financial analysis with regard 

to the impact to both the Department of Defense and other 

employers of Non-Appropriated Fund employees who, as you pointed 

out, are the primary audience of such an increase, and prior to 

making any decision, we strongly recommend that such analyses be 

performed as well as a business impact statement from 

organizations that would obviously feel the pinch. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Just procedurally, we here at 

FPRAC lack the resources to do that analysis.  We're here to 

make recommendations to the Director, who would have those 

resources.  So, presumably, before anything like this went 

forward, that sort of analysis would occur, but it's not 

 

21 

something we can do here, as far as I know. 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  It is something that, as a primary 

employer of the Non-Appropriated Fund employees, the Department 

of Defense probably could do.  I cannot tell you how long it 

would take us, but I can tell you that we could probably figure 

out the dollars and cents of it for at least the Department, if 

not everyone. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Also, just for clarification, 

since it is primarily something that would affect 

Non-Appropriated Fund employees, you are not talking, I assume, 

about a direct budgetary impact to the Federal Government, or 

are you? 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  There is a direct budgetary impact to 

the organizations that employ the Non-Appropriated Fund 

employees.  The nature of non-appropriated funds is such that 

the fees for services and goods provided pay the salaries of 

employees. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right. 

MR. SHULMAN:  For those organizations to remain 

competitive with other service providers, they, by necessity, 

have to keep their costs low.  The second that the costs go up 

and they lose their competitive edge, that's the minute that 

 

22 

they cease to be a viable option for the primary customers who, 

ultimately for us at least, are our servicemen and -women.  So 

if the servicemen and -women are forced to pay more for goods 

and services, they don't have to use organizations that employ 

Non-Appropriated Fund employees.  When that happens, there are 

rules in economics.  I think we're all familiar with them. 

 

All I'm saying is that before a decision is even 

arrived at or we discuss this further, we should have some 

modeling done to know what the impact is going to be.  You know, 

it looks like it might be very small, but when you take a look 

at what the impact is in the aggregate and over the course of 

time -- and Congress is already looking at the way commissaries 

and exchanges operate -- we have to be careful about making a 

decision like this without further analysis and study. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right. 

MR. BUCK:  We are also talking about rec centers, golf 

courses -- 

 

 

use. 

 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  Exactly. 

MR. BUCK:  -- those facilities that military members 

MR. SHULMAN:  Correct. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Anything on the Labor side on this 

 

23 

issue? 

 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  There is always a business case to be 

made for why not to help the people at the lowest end of the 

rung, and quite honestly, that is all I ever hear from most 

politicians, the business case.  No offense to you, Seth, but 

that's-- 

 

 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  I'm not a politician. 

[Laughter.] 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  What about those people?  We've got to 

do something for those people, obviously.  The President wants 

to do something.  It would make a lot of sense to me if we all 

did.  I know we all do on this side. 

 

MR. ALLEN:  I believe as the President and some 

Members in Congress have said, the cleanest way to do this, to 

increase the wages for all employees to $10.10, is for Congress 

to pass legislation to increase the Federal minimum wage level. 

 

But as David was saying, under the Federal Wage 

System, we currently do have a regulation that requires wage 

schedules to be constructed using any relevant local or State 

minimum wage law. 

 

So it is true that in at least some wage areas, the 

minimum wage rate -- correct me if I'm wrong, Jim.  In some wage 

 

24 

areas, it is already above $10.10 an hour.  Is that correct? 

 

MR. BRADY:  I guess it will be in the future, but 

currently, not to our knowledge. 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Okay. 

MR. BRADY:  But in the future, there are certainly 

State or local legislative initiatives that suggest it will be. 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes.  I have heard of some areas raising 

their minimum wage rates in the news, but they tend to have a 

staggered implementation timetable.  I believe this has happened 

in Seattle, Washington, and in the State of Maryland, but these 

areas don't just go to the maximum rate starting in January 

2015.  They phase it in over some time to allow for employers to 

adjust to such a big increase in what's being proposed as the 

new State or local minimum wage rate. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any other discussion? 

MR. SHULMAN:  I would just make the observation that 

the mere fact that I suggest the business case be studied and 

applied does not mean that we're dead set against the idea.  I 

just believe that we should be fully informed about what the 

impacts will be.  The fact something may cost us more is not 

enough of a reason to say, "No, we shouldn't do it."  There are 

always impacts, though, and we do need to be familiar with what 

 

25 

those impacts are before we make the decision.  That's all I'm 

saying.  I just hope that that's clear for everyone who is 

present. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, in view of the reservations 

expressed by the Management side, is there a way of rephrasing 

the AFGE proposal where we could still go forward by consensus, 

get across the basic idea of the increase, and yet address some 

of the concerns about the analysis that you say are lacking?  Is 

there any room for consensus to be found around that or not? 

 

The thing that I worry about is in part, as I 

mentioned, we lack the resources here at FPRAC to do the sort of 

analysis you are saying is needed, and so I don't think it is 

fair to the Labor side to be in a circular situation where they 

have a proposal, Management says it requires analysis, but there 

is no way to get the analysis done if Labor has no way to do the 

analysis, and then that becomes the end of the proposal.  See 

what I'm saying? 

 

So is there a way of rephrasing the proposal that 

would make it a consensus proposal that would address the 

analysis you think is needed but also get across Labor's point 

about the need for this increase? 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  I truly don't see how.  I have no 

 

26 

problem tabling it, making a motion that we table it while we 

undertake some study.  It would not be the first time that a 

study was done on a proposal before voting on it. 

 

Again, the proposal itself might have some merit, but 

not knowing what the impacts are, it's difficult to say from my 

perspective, representing the Department, that we should be in a 

position to reach consensus and say, "Yes, the Director should 

consider it," without knowing what those impacts are. 

 

But I have no problem tabling it until we have a 

better idea, and then we can all make a more fully informed 

recommendation.  That's what this is all about, ultimately, 

making an informed recommendation to the Director. 

 

MR. ALLEN:  I should also reiterate that that 

$10.10-an-hour minimum wage rate for contractors is not 

currently applied to any type of Federal contractors under the 

Department of Labor's regulation.  They are in the process of 

implementing regulations for January 2015 -- and then only for 

new contractors. 

 

So I don't think -- it doesn't make sense to me to get 

ahead of what the Department of Labor is doing for Federal 

contract compliance if we were to put potential Federal 

employees at an even more advantageous position. 

 

27 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, does anybody want to say 

anything on this side here?  Do you have a question? 

 

MR. GREGORY:  Is the concern over the timing if this 

were to be implemented?  No?  That's not what you're saying? 

 

 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  That is a concern -- 

MR. GREGORY:  Okay. 

MR. SHULMAN:  -- as is the fact that we have 

regulations that require us to pay  prevailing rates based on 

what the rates are currently being paid in FWS wage areas, and 

again, what the impacts could be for all affected employees and 

organizations that employ them. 

 

There are several concerns.  So, like other proposals 

that we have faced at this table, we tend to do analysis before 

we go ahead and try to reach consensus on something. 

 

MR. ALLEN:  There is also the question about the legal 

mechanism that an OPM Director could use to adjust wage rates 

outside of the appropriations law process that we follow every 

year.  The open question that I don't think has been answered by 

anybody, is what legal authority we actually have to recommend 

that Director Archuleta do something to adjust the minimum wage 

rate for certain groups of Federal employees, where the Director 

and even the President does not have an alternative plan 

 

28 

authority to provide for annual pay adjustments different than 

what Congress authorizes each year. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Steve? 

MR. LANDIS:  I think that is actually something that 

we have been requesting now for the last several meetings, and 

some on the Management side have opposed that, just requesting 

that the Director research whether or not if the legal aspect of 

that is a possibility. 

 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  I wasn't here. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yes.  I think you are referring to 

the working group discussion. 

 

 

 

MR. LANDIS:  Yes. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yes. 

So I guess I will restate my question to the 

Management side.  So, in addition to the business case analysis, 

Mark, you raised the point that the Department of Labor proposed 

regulation has sort of a phased implementation plan, and also 

you raised the question about asking if the Director of OPM has 

the legal authority to implement the AFGE proposal. 

 

So I would ask, is there a way of rewording Labor's 

proposal that would address those concerns, so that we might go 

forward on a consensus basis? 

 

29 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Mr. Chairman, the Management members would 

like to take a brief caucus to discuss where we're at right now. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  I believe we have the Small 

Pendleton Room available for caucuses. 

 

So we are briefly in recess for however long it may 

take. 

 

 

[Management members go in caucus off the record.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We are back in session.  

Management is back from its caucus. 

 

Is there anything that Management would like to 

report? 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes.  Mr. Chairman, we would like to 

suggest as an alternative to the Labor proposal approach a 

two-pronged approach to tackling this issue. 

 

The first prong would be for FPRAC to recommend that 

Director Archuleta seek a legal opinion to assess whether it is 

even legally permissible for OPM to issue regulations to set a 

higher minimum wage rate than is currently authorized or set a 

higher minimum wage rate that's higher than the rate wage 

schedules would allow. 

 

The second prong would be for the Department of 

Defense to conduct a cost analysis of the impact and 

 

30 

implementation of increasing the minimum wage rate to $10.10 an 

hour. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So I understand it -- and maybe 

the Labor folks have a question about it too -- are you saying 

both of those conditions would have to be met to move forward, 

or are they two separate things? 

 

MR. ALLEN:  No, they're combined.  They would both be 

happening concurrently.  The legal opinion would be requested, 

as the analysis is conducted. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So if there were consensus on 

this, for example, we could go ahead and recommend to the 

Director that she ask for the legal opinion; is that correct? 

 

 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  That's correct. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 

Any questions or discussion? 

MR. LANDIS:  It sounds very good to me to start.  Do 

we have some type of an idea of a time requirement for the DoD 

analysis?  I'm not saying it has to be done by the next meeting, 

but is it going to be completed next year?  In ten years? 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  No.  I mean, we're talking probably, you 

know, 60 to 90 days.  Probably before the end of the fiscal 

year, I suspect.  It really depends on how hard it is to gather 

 

31 

all the information, but remember it is not just DoD we'd be 

looking at. 

 

 

MR. LANDIS:  Oh, I understand. 

MR. SHULMAN:  We've got to look at everybody.  

Ultimately, someone has to analyze all of this, so VA, 

obviously, also -- 

 

MS. ARCHER:  I think we need to call a caucus for the 

Labor members. 

 

 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Sure.  Please caucus. 

MS. ARCHER:  Thank you. 

[Labor members go in caucus off the record.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Labor has returned from its 

caucus, and we're back in session. 

 

Is there anything the Labor folks would like to report 

on from their caucus? 

 

 

 

MS. ARCHER:  Jacque, are you with us? 

MS. SIMON:  Yes, I'm on. 

MS. ARCHER:  Okay.  Would we like to report anything 

back from Labor from the caucus, or do we just want to move 

forward? 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, we need some sort of report 

back from the caucus. 

 

32 

 

Management has made a proposal for a consensus, and 

you Labor folks were off having a caucus to discuss it, so -- 

 

 

 

MR. LANDIS:  Okay. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- you need to report -- 

MR. LANDIS:  I don't think we have consensus with the 

Management proposal.  If Management feels like some more 

research or discussion should be conducted, we could table the 

issue until the next meeting, or we could call for a vote on the 

original AFGE proposal. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Are you proposing to table it for 

today? 

 

 

MR. LANDIS:  I think so. 

MS. ARCHER:  Let's call the question, a motion for a 

vote on the original proposal. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  All right, okay.  So there is no 

basis for a consensus with the Management proposal -- or revised 

proposal. 

 

 

 

MS. ARCHER:  That's correct. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  All right.  Well, we can vote. 

So we are voting on the proposal, as submitted by 

AFGE.  I am reading from 596-AFGE-1.  Labor proposes that FPRAC 

recommend that the $10.10-per-hour minimum wage that President 

 

33 

Obama has applied to all new Federal contracts by means of his 

February 2014 executive order -- and the website is given for 

that -- be applied to all Federal Wage System wage schedules. 

 

MS. GONZALEZ:  We do not have a motion.  You need to 

consider a motion. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there a motion to adopt that 

proposal? 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  I move that we accept that proposal. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there a second? 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Second. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  It's been moved and seconded. 

Is there any discussion? 

MS. ARCHER:  I actually think we should get a few 

things into the record regarding some of the comments that 

Management made prior to going to caucus. 

 

First of all, there was this assumption that 

businesses on base would close if there were this issue of 

raising wages, and, you know, clearly there would be some 

economic effects of this.  But I think that it's appropriate to 

say that, you know, you largely have a captive market here for a 

lot of these businesses.  It's not easy to, for example, get off 

base to go to lunch, and that this is probably an overstated 

 

34 

point, at best. 

 

Secondly, one of the things that happened -- and 

certainly something that was suggested by the administration 

when it chose to take this action -- is that if we're not 

subsidizing -- if a living wage doesn't exist for people who are 

working in these places, then the Government is just going to be 

paying for it in other ways, either through providing public 

assistance or other means of providing for these folks. 

 

So, you know, a living wage is something that Labor is 

always going to support, and while there may be some economic 

arguments that would certainly suggest this would be more 

expensive for the employers, we want to at least suggest some of 

your arguments are not as, you know, bulletproof as you seem to 

suggest when you were discussing the problems with the $10.10 

wage. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any other discussion? 

MR. SHULMAN:  Yes.  I mean, that's very nice to have 

my comments mischaracterized, but that's not the first time 

that's happened in this forum or others, for that matter. 

 

At no point did Management say we made an assumption 

that this would occur.  We did suggest at least studying it to 

find out what the impacts could be. 

 

35 

 

So, apparently, Labor has reached a particular 

perspective on this and has decided that, obviously, there's 

going to be limited impact.  That is a perspective that you are 

certainly entitled to.  It has no grounding in any actual data, 

so far as I'm aware, because no one, as far as I'm aware, has 

looked at it yet, but that's okay too.  We will have to do 

analysis, and we will obviously deal with that offline. 

 

 

 

I have nothing further to add to the record. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any other discussion? 

MS. SIMON:  I'd just like to tell everyone that I 

spoke yesterday with a young woman who is the mother of two.  

She's a housekeeper at the VA hospital in Seattle, and I told 

her about this proposal.  I told her that we were going to 

discuss it today at FPRAC, and she told me about her struggles 

to find a place to live and put food on the table.  She has to 

work two jobs.  Again, she has two children.  She's a veteran, 

and it's shameful.  She is cleaning the halls and the patient 

rooms in a VA hospital, taking care of veterans, and by any 

measure, she is poor.  And that shouldn't be the case for an 

employee of the Federal Government. 

 

And $10.10 an hour would be an increase for her, and 

it would be a big difference in her ability to support herself 

 

36 

and her children.  And that is the motivation for this proposal, 

and it's a simple matter of fairness and decency, and that's why 

we made the proposal. 

 

 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you, Jacque. 

Any other discussion of the motion? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, I'll call the question, 

and we can vote.  Labor proposes that FPRAC recommend that the 

$10.10-per-hour minimum that President Obama has applied to all 

new Federal contracts by means of his February 2014 executive 

order be applied to all Federal Wage System wage schedules. 

 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Like before, I will call each 

organization, and I need to hear you vote yes or no. 

 

I will start with the Labor side this time.  Metal 

trades? 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  AFGE.  Candace? 

MS. ARCHER:  Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  AFGE.  Jacque? 

MS. SIMON:  Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  NAGE? 

MR. GREGORY:  Yes. 

 

37 

MS. GONZALEZ:  ACT? 

MR. LANDIS:  Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  OPM? 

MR. ALLEN:  No. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  DoD? 

MR. SHULMAN:  No. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Navy? 

MR. PEDERSEN:  No. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Army? 

MR. BUCK:  No. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  VA? 

MS. BOYD:  No. 

MS. GONZALEZ:  5-5.  It's a tie. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So I am very sympathetic to 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Labor's proposal.  I agree with it entirely on public policy 

grounds; however, I am troubled by the fact that only the 

Management side has offered to come to consensus on making a 

recommendation to the Director of OPM that she seek a legal 

opinion about this matter. 

 

Given the fact that that was an offer, I feel I need 

to abstain this morning, since while it is in my mind a very 

good idea from a public policy standpoint to implement this 

 

38 

proposal, if we don't know whether the legal authority exists to 

do it -- and that information could be ascertained by a request 

from the Director to OPM’s General Counsel -- it seems to me 

it's our obligation to recommend to her that she get that 

information in order to determine whether it can be done.  So I, 

therefore, abstain.  So I guess that means we don't have a 

decision on this matter this morning.  I am happy to revisit it 

at the next meeting or any subsequent meeting. 

 

 

 

Is there any other New Business this morning? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, is there any objection to 

adjourning? 

 

 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  No objection. 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  None here. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing no objection, we are 

adjourned.  See everybody in August.  Have a good month. 

 

