 

 
1 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

576th FPRAC 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

Thursday, July 19, 2012 

ROOM 5526 


Office of Personnel Management


Washington, D.C. 20415 


 
 
 
 

 

 
ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors:
 
 
 
 

Management Members: 

Mark Allen, OPM

Seth Shulman, DOD

Carlos Saavedra, NAVY

Darlene Freeman, AF 

 
Labor Members: 
J. David Cox, AFGE

Jacque Simon, AFGE

Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE

Steven Fisher, ACT 

 
Jerry Mikowicz, Designated Federal Official, OPM
Madeline Gonzalez, OPM
 
Mike Eicher, OPM
 
Terri Avondet, OPM
Lindsey O’Keefe, OPM
 
Chris Wallace, OPM
 
Jim Brady, DOD
Karl Fendt, DOD
Bill Becht, DOD
Travis Reuther, AFGE
Stephanie Boyd, VA 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Recording Secretaries:  Mike Eicher and Terri Avondet 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.] 

 
I. 

  

Opening/Announcements
• Introductions.....................................4 

• Announcements.....................................5 


- CD-ROM containing letters from employees at 
 
Tobyhanna Army Depot in support of FPRAC
recommendation to consolidate FWS wage areas
that lie within GS locality pay areas, 575-OC-5
- Response to May 11, 2012, memorandum to the 
 
FPRAC Chairman from Colonel James P. Ross at 
New Boston Air Force Station in support of the
2010 AFGE proposal, 576-OC-1
[The incoming memorandum was provided to the
members at the June 21, 2012, meeting.] 
  

 

II.  Review of the Minutes of 575th Meeting..............8 

 
III.  Old Business........................................9 


a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2

 

C O N T E N T S 


 
2 

Page 

- Total Employment in the Eastern Tennessee
- List of FWS Wage Areas with Fewer than 500
- Review of Criteria for Defining Appropriated

Wages Area by County, 566-OPM-1
Employees, 566-OPM-2
Fund Wage Areas, 545-OC-1 [REPRINT]
b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns
Survey Issues Work Group, 560-OC-1

- FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on 
c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal
Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1
d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
e. Letter from the American Federation of Government 
Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1
Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1
Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-2 

f. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC
g. Definition of Youngstown-Warren-Boardman, OH-PA

 

   
IV.  New Business.......................................11 


a. Proposal for FPRAC review of the Federal Wage
System Appropriated Fund and Non-appropriated 

 
 
IV.  New Business (continued) 

Fund Operating Manuals, 575-AFGE-1 

Page 

 
3 

 

 

C O N T E N T S (continued) 

 
b. Definition of Cape Girardeau-Jackson, MO-IL


Metropolitan Statistical Area and Perry County,

MO,576-MGT-1
 

 

P R O C E E D I N G 

 
4 

MR. COX:  J. David Cox, National Secretary-Treasurer 

 

MS. SIMON:  Jacque Simon, AFGE. 
MS. SUSZCYK:  Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE. 
MS. FISHER:  Steve Fisher, ACT. 
MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Seth Shulman, Department of Defense. 
MR. SAAVEDRA:  Carlos Saavedra, Department of the 

 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone.  Welcome 
to this 576th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory 
Committee.  My name is Sheldon Friedman.  I am the Chairman, and 
as we normally do, why don't we go around and introduce 
ourselves. David, starting with you. 
 
for the American Federation of Government Employees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Navy. 
 
would also introduce themselves, please? 
 
 
Official for this meeting, OPM. 
 
 

MS. BOYD:  Stephanie Boyd, VA. 
MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, DoD. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And if folks around the sides 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 
MR. MIKOWICZ:  Jerry Mikowicz, the Designated Federal 

 

 
5 

 
MR. FENDT:  Karl Fendt, DoD. 
 
MR. BECHT:  Bill Becht, DoD. 
 
MR. EICHER:  Mike Eicher, OPM. 
 
MS. AVONDET:  Terri Avondet, OPM. 
 
MR. WALLACE:  Chris Wallace, OPM. 
 
MS. O'KEEFE: Lindsey O'Keefe, OPM. 
 
MR. REUTHER:  Travis Reuther, AFGE. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you and welcome. 
 
I’ll make a couple of quick announcements.  You have 
in your folders a CD-ROM containing about 400 letters from FWS 
employees at Tobyhanna Army Depot in Pennsylvania.  So some 
people, I hope, will want to take a look at them. 
 
letter that I received from Colonel James Ross regarding the 
situation of FWS workers at the New Boston Air Force Station in 
New Hampshire. The incoming letter was distributed at our last 
meeting. 
 
 
 
announcement? 
 

Any other announcements? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Did you want to make an 

Also included in your folders is my response to a May 

MR. SHULMAN:  Yes.  At the last meeting, there was a 

 

 
6 

The Department of Defense has a Strategic Human 

question raised in regard to the future size of the Federal Wage 
System workforce.  I mean, obviously, it's not the single 
occupational series, so we tend not to look at employment 
forecasting in a particular pay system. 
 
Capital Office, which does take a look at workforce size and the 
forecasting of it, and it looks at the occupational series or 
occupational series group.  So, if you have a particular 
occupational series that also happens to be covered by the FWS, 
that's how they tend to look at what the employment needs of the 
Department are going to be over time. 
 
meeting, I approached that office and asked if they had been 
intending to take a look at the occupations that are covered by 
the FWS.  They happen not to be, but we have an opportunity at 
the departmental level to initiate a study with regard to all 
positions covered by the FWS and see what employment may look 
like 10 years out. 
 
interested in that.  We are, too, for a variety of reasons, as 
you might imagine, for budgeting purposes.  We're going to 
initiate a proposal.  The study probably will be carried out by 

As a result of a comment being made in the last 

I assume that everyone in this room is fairly 

 

 
7 

Now, this is going to be primarily a Department of 

RAND, which carries out a lot of our studies.  They're obviously 
not affiliated with or part of the government.  So we're going 
to propose jointly out of my shop and out of the Strategic Human 
Capital Office a fairly comprehensive look at what the trends 
are going to be in positions covered by the FWS. 
 
Defense study, because that's who would pay for the study, but 
we will see if we can extrapolate for the rest of the Federal 
Government as well, and we will invite comment from interested 
parties with regard to what the study parameters are going to be 
when we get that far.  It's not going to be quick.  It probably 
will take a couple of months to draft it up, but I'm happy to 
share it with this group and certainly with OPM, which will be 
an interested party. 
 
Federal Wage System workforce employed by DoD and its components 
is still around 72 percent. 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  Right. 
 
MR. ALLEN:  There are other agencies that employ FWS 
workers.  VA is one of the major employers.  The Department of 
Justice, Bureau of Prisons is another one. 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, thank you, Seth.  I'm sure 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes.  I think the percentage of the 

 

 
8 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And I just want to note for the 

MS. FREEMAN:  Darlene Freeman. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you, and welcome. 
So people have the transcript of the last meeting? 

that's going to be interesting and useful information for all of 
us.  Any questions about that? 
 
 
record that the Air Force is in the house.  Would you introduce 
yourself for the recorder, please? 
 
 
 
Are there any other changes beyond those that people have 
already told Madeline about? 
 
 
adopting the transcript of that meeting? 
 
 
transcript is adopted.  Thank you. 
 
we have moved over to our working group, but if there's any on 
that list, A through G, that anyone wants to talk about right 
now, we can certainly do that.  Are there any people who have a 
burning desire to address them here today? 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, is there any objection to 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing no objection, the 

We have a number of Old Business Items.  Most of them, 

 

 
9 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I know that his Deputy Chief of 

 
MS. SIMON:  I have a question; I guess it really has 
to do with something you raised in the opening announcements. 
Are you aware of whether the Director has had an opportunity to 
read some of the letters or any of the letters from the 
Tobyhanna employees? 
 
Staff, Justin Johnson, has read quite a few of them and told me 
that he was picking out some for the Director to read.  Whether 
the Director actually read -- I think the answer is yes, but I 
don't know of my own knowledge, but we can find out. 
 
 
accurate, but I don't know specifically. 
 
at least a sampling of the letters was transmitted to the 
Director?  Obviously, we can't tell whether he's ever actually 
read them. 
 
 
 
 
 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  I think they were summarized. 
MS. SIMON:  But they were put in front of him? 
MR. MIKOWICZ:  A summary of them. 
MS. SIMON:  A summary, okay. 
MR. MIKOWICZ:  A summary.  So I don't know 

Do you know, Jerry? 
MR. MIKOWICZ:  I believe what you just described is 

MS. SIMON:  So you do think that in some formal way, 

 

 
10 

MS. SIMON:  And how about letters like the one from 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I don't know specifically whether 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Probably, he would not have seen 

specifically if he had the actual letters. 
 
Colonel Ross?  Are those transmitted to the Director? 
 
that one would have been.  I mean, it came in to me, so --
 
 
that one. 
 
MR. ALLEN:  The Director has signed a number of 
letters that are similar to this one, so, yes, he has seen 
similar letters to this, but I'm pretty sure he would not have 
signed off on the letter to Colonel Ross on this subject 
himself. 
 
this be transmitted to the Director? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I don't see why not. 
MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Easy to do.  Okay. 
Anything else on any of these Old Business Items? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, why don't we move to New 

MS. SIMON:  Can we formally ask that letters such as 

 

 
11 

I would suggest we flip the order and start with Item 

Mark, would you please summarize that one for us? 
MR. ALLEN:  Yes, Mr. Chairman. 
This is another in our line of reviews of counties 

 
(b), 576-MGT-1, definition of Cape Girardeau-Jackson, MO-IL 
Metropolitan Statistical Area and Perry County, MO. 
 
 
 
throughout the United States that are part of Metropolitan 
Statistical Areas and the Metropolitan Statistical Areas are 
split by wage area boundaries.  Under OPM's regulations, unless 
there's some unusual circumstance, an MSA is not supposed to be 
split. 
 
The Management members have taken a look at the Cape 
Girardeau-Jackson, MO-IL MSA, and based on our review of it, we 
recommend that Bollinger and Cape Girardeau Counties be 
redefined to the St. Louis area of application. 
 
package, nine employees of the Department of the Army 
represented by ACT would be moved from the Southern Missouri 
Wage Area to the St. Louis Wage Area under this proposal. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any discussion or questions? 
 
MR. FISHER:  Mr. Chairman, we'd like to caucus. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Of course.  We have the Small 

We provided the usual background information in the 

 

 
12 

We were discussing 576-MGT-1.  Any discussion? 
MR. COX:  Mr. Chairman, I think we are pretty much in 

We also wanted to know if you were planning to bring 

[Caucus taken by Labor members.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  The Labor folks have returned from 

Pendleton Room available for caucuses today. 
 
 
their caucus, and we're back in session. 
 
 
agreement on that one. 
 
back any of these on the old business. 
 
 
 
 
Youngstown-Warren-Boardman, that we are pretty much in agreement 
and consensus on that one too. 
 
them one at a time.  Were there others? 
 
Lenoir-Morgantown -- as the resident North Carolinian on this 
group, I probably know more about that area there.  I think we 
may be in some disagreement as to how that one is proposed, but 
we'd like to at least have some conversation.  I believe it's 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Do you mean today? 
MR. COX:  Yes. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We could if you want to. 
MR. COX:  I actually believe number (g), 575-MGT-2, 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, I think we have to do 

MR. COX:  Well, we would also -- if the Hickory-

 

 
13 

proposed to move two counties from the Charlotte wage area to 
the Asheville wage area, but, in reality, we believe the entire 
MSA would fit more appropriately in the Charlotte area. 
 
Reading the write-up, distance was not an issue.  The 
commutes were the same, things of that nature.  There was not a 
lot of statistical significance in it, even geographically.  And 
I personally know the way the Interstates run in that area, 
there are tons of people in those counties that work in 
Charlotte every day, and many of them go to Salisbury to the VA 
Medical Center to work every day. 
 
think we do need to do them one at a time. 
 
MR. COX:  That's fine. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Since we kind of started with the 
Cape Girardeau-Jackson, MO-IL MSA and Perry County, 576-MGT-1, 
why don't we start with that?  Any discussion of that? 
Questions? 
 
 
adopted 576-MGT-1.  Thank you. 
 
Boardman, OH-PA, 575-MGT-2.  Do we need a refresher on what 

MR. COX:  I think we're in agreement. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Consensus?  Okay.  So we've 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, I'll tell you what, I 

Let's go in kind of reverse order, Youngstown-Warren-

 

 
14 

MS. SIMON:  We're okay with it. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  You're okay with that?  So there's 

It sounds like on 575-MGT-1, there is not consensus. 

MS. SIMON:  Well, we just wanted a counter proposal. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
MR. COX:  If you look at it, currently, Alexander and 

we're talking about doing here? 
 
 
consensus to adopt that.  So we've adopted 575-MGT-2. 
 
We had earlier moved that to the working group. 
 
 
 
Catawba Counties are in the Charlotte wage area.  Burke and 
Caldwell Counties are in the Asheville wage area.  If you look 
at the data that's provided, the commuting patterns are pretty 
much the same. In reality, the dollars and cents figures, which 
we all tend to look at, whether we say we do or not, I think 
it's like just 40 or less cents an hour.  It is a very nominal 
amount of money, and even actually on a few of the scales, the 
way they cross over, it's probably no change.  But, obviously, 
Charlotte is the larger metropolitan area.  Everything hubs 
around Charlotte.  All of these counties pretty much go that 
way.  You have Interstate 77, Interstate 40, and Interstate 85, 
and that's how you travel through North Carolina.  Asheville is 
much farther to the west. 

 

 
15 

MR. ALLEN:  As part of our working group, at our last 

MR. COX:  That's fine. 
MR. ALLEN:  -- in the working group and take a look at 

 
working group meeting, we as a group decided to take a look 
county by county within each MSA, look at the regulatory 
criteria for each county.  So what I would recommend is we 
continue to discuss this one --
 
 
each individual country and see if that shows us a different 
picture compared with the current analysis, which just looks at 
the core county for the MSA and looks at the regulatory criteria 
in that regard. 
 
a counter proposal to move the entire MSA into the Charlotte 
wage area? 
 
 
do that. 
 
ourselves first. 
 
working group for the time being? 
 

MR. COX:  Correct.  We are. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I assume there's not consensus to 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Just to be clear, you are offering 

MR. ALLEN:  We'd at least want to discuss it amongst 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah.  So shall we leave it in the 

MR. COX:  That's fine.  Actually, in North Carolina, 

 

 
16 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  All right.  So, shortly after this 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah. 
MR. COX:  In most of those areas, there is really no 

you used to survey textile plants and things like that, and not 
all of them exist anymore.  They're all gone.  That's the sad 
part. 
 
 
one to survey anymore.  Kind of a sad state of affairs. 
 
meeting, we're going to have a working group meeting where I 
think our main agenda item is this whole MSA issue.  The current 
regulation does not allow split MSAs except in very unusual 
circumstances – we might want to consider alternatives for that 
current regulation. 
 
the 575-AFGE 1 --
 
 
review, the Federal Wage System appropriated fund and non-
appropriated fund Operating Manuals, which I think is a very 
good suggestion.  Did you folks want to speak on that a little 
bit?  We were thinking that might be something that could be 
taken up initially in the working group as well. 
 

So that brings up Item (a) under New Business which is 

 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- proposal that FPRAC should 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  I think that -- you know, we've 

 

 
17 

discussed this informally.  I get a lot of inquiries from our 
locals having to do with the legal status of the Operating 
Manual.  It seems to be the case that it's followed in some 
places and not followed in others.  Some of our locals have 
thought about incorporating it into their collective bargaining 
agreements, because it does seem to be ignored, to the detriment 
of employees in numerous circumstances. 
 
Manual, where very important issues are addressed, should 
possibly have FPRAC consideration to sort of elevate them to the 
status of regulation, because the Operating Manual seems to have 
this extremely vague legal status. 
 
the Operating Manuals are up to date and complete or not? 
 
particular, what I'm thinking about are circumstances in 
prisons.  I think that in the time since the Operating Manual 
has been prepared, inmates are performing a lot of the work 
previously performed by Federal employees, and the Federal 
employees in the prisons are effectively supervising inmates 
performing all of this work.  It's kind of murky when they try 
to make reference to the operating manual for how it would be 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there also any issue of whether 

You know, some of the provisions of the Operating 

MS. SIMON:  I think that they might not be, and, in 

 

 
18 

MR. ALLEN:  I can speak to that.  The OPM Operating 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any discussion on this side of the 

applied to corrections officers who are supervising inmates 
performing some of this work. 
 
table? 
 
Manual is for the Federal Wage System, which covered the 
appropriated fund employees in one manual and non-appropriated 
fund employees in a separate manual.  The precursor to these 
Operating Manuals was the Federal Personnel Manual (FPM), 
Supplements 532-1 and 532-2.  FPRAC recommended back in the mid-
1990s when the Federal Personnel Manual was abolished that OPM 
keep the information that was contained in those two FPM 
supplements as Operating Manuals.  They don't have the same sort 
of legal status as the old Federal Personnel Manual did, but 
they are OPM's guidance on how things should operate. 
 
A lot of the things contained in the Operating Manuals 
were put into regulation.  A number of the detailed descriptions 
of policies that were in the FPM are not in the current 
regulations because we were limited in how much language we 
could put into regulation back when we were putting things into 
regulation to cover the Federal Wage System. 
 

The Operating Manuals are not necessarily static 

 

 
19 

documents.  If FPRAC decides to make recommendations to change 
or update some of the language in the operating manuals, OPM can 
do that, but, on the other hand, it might make more sense, 
depending on what we are looking at, just to make it a 
regulation. 
 
MS. SIMON:  That's why we raised it. 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  I do have a question. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Sure. 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  I'm just curious.  When you said earlier 
in some places, stuff is not being followed, and other places it 
is, can you -- I'm just curious.  Can you give us some examples 
of what's going on? 
 
most of my examples are regarding the Bureau of Prisons.  An 
individual warden has a tremendous amount of discretion about 
whether or not somebody is eligible for hazard pay, depending on 
the warden's opinion of the circumstances that might warrant or 
not warrant hazard pay. 
 
Again, there are inconsistencies among prisons about whether or 
not somebody who's exposed to a meat locker for a whole shift, 
entitles somebody to cold circumstances or cold environment pay. 

MS. SIMON:  What comes to mind in particular, again, 

There's pay for exposure to very cold environments. 

 

 
20 

There are other situations where people are loading 

MS. SIMON:  I think the details of the circumstances 

Sometimes it's not applied. 
 
and unloading munitions, which probably occurs in DoD, too, but 
I hear about it in the prisons.  That's considered a hazard in 
some locations, other locations it is not.  So some people are 
getting hazard pay; other people are not. 
MR. SAAVEDRA:  So has it been looked at as to whether 
 
or not the problem is not in compliance with regulation?  What 
does the regulation say in regard to those categories? 
 
that warrant this premium pay are laid out in the operating 
manual and laid out in less detail in the regulation, and, of 
course, our collective bargaining agreements incorporate law and 
regulation, but they don't incorporate the operating manual. 
Anyway, that's an example that comes to mind. 
 
entitle you to hazard pay? 
 
MS. SIMON:  You get 20-year retirement, and if you're 
a blue collar, you get wage supervisor pay as some compensation 
for the hazards of prison employment, but, of course, it's 
inadequate, given the genuine hazards.  Plus, there's 
overcrowding, which makes it even worse.  We should all be 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So working in a prison doesn't 

 

 
21 

MS. SIMON:  Well, I don't want to have it be 

MR. COX:  Work in a prison. 
MS. SIMON:  -- work in a prison. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I'm sorry.  You were saying 

thankful we don't --
 
 
 
something? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  I think it's a good idea to take a look at 
that issue in the working group.  Let's take a look at the -- we 
can compare the information that's contained in the CFR 
regarding EDP. 
 
exclusively hazard pay or premium pay.  I think there are other 
issues as well. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If I could just note quickly.  So 
another thing I found interesting about this idea of looking at 
the manuals is that a lot of this stuff that I put in this kind 
of laundry list for the working group are actually things that 
would be addressed as we go through the manuals.  All survey 
issues and so forth would be things that we would come to in the 
manuals. 
 
Anyway, so unless there's some objection, why don't we 
initially at least start looking at these manuals in our working 
group. 

 

 
22 

And then is there any other New Business that we need 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And if not, is there any objection 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And I don't hear an objection, so 

 
 
that's what we'll do, right?  Okay. 
 
to address today? 
 
 
to adjourning? 
 
 
we're adjourned, and we will convene in about 10 minutes in the 
Small Pendleton Room for our working group.  Thank you all. 
 
 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I don't hear an objection, so 

