 

1 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

597th FPRAC 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

Thursday, August 21, 2014 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management 

Washington, D.C. 20415 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
 
Management Members: 
 
 
Mark Allen, OPM 
 
Seth Shulman, DoD 
 
David Pedersen, Navy 
 
Gary Buck, Army 
  
 
 
Labor Members: 
 
Bill Fenaughty, MTD 
  
Candace Archer, AFGE 
 
Adair Gregory, NAGE 
 
Steven Landis, ACT 
 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors: 
 
Brenda Roberts, Designated Federal Officer, OPM 
 
Madeline Gonzalez, OPM 
 
Becky Chaves, DoD 
 
Karl Fendt, DoD 
 
Brian Bauer, DoD 
 
Luis Lynch, Air Force 
     
 
Recording Secretaries: 
 
Mike Eicher, OPM 
 
Terri Wallace, OPM 
 

[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]

 

2 

C O N T E N T S 

                                                       Page 
I.    Opening/Announcements 
      • Introductions.....................................3 
      • Announcements.....................................4 
        - Update on Director's Executive Conference 
          Room Recording Equipment                   
        - Status Report on FWS Wage Area Map Book Update 
 
II.   Review of the Minutes of 596th Meeting..............6 
 
III.  Old Business........................................6 
      a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2 
         - 2013 Update to Review Lee County, Virginia, 586-MGT-1 
      b. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 
         Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2 
         - 2013 Update to Definition of South Bend- 
           Mishawaka, IN-MI Metropolitan Statistical 
           Area, 586-MGT-2 
      c. Letter from the American Federation of Government 
         Employees, dated June 6, 2011, Requesting FPRAC 
         Review a Proposal to Redefine Monroe County, PA 
         from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA Wage Area to 
         the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1 
      d. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC 
         Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1 
 
 
 
 
IV.     New Business......................................7 
        a. Letter from American Federation of Government 
 Employees dated August 18, 2014, Requesting 
 
 FPRAC Reexamine the Definition of Grenada and 
 
  
 Yalobusha Counties, MS, 597-AFGE-1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    - 2013 Update to Definition of 
 Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC Metropolitan 
 
 Statistical Area, 588-MGT-1 
 

 

P R O C E E D I N G 

3 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone, and 

Meanwhile, why don't we go around the room and 

We are in unusual quarters today because of continuing 

 
welcome to our 597th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate 
Advisory Committee.  My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chair of the 
Committee. 
 
difficulties with the recording equipment in the Executive 
Conference Room downstairs.  Hopefully, that will be resolved by 
our October meeting. 
 
introduce ourselves, as we normally do?  Let's start with you 
today, Mark. 
 
MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM and also serving 
temporarily as the Designated Federal Officer until Brenda 
Roberts is able to join the meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

MR. SHULMAN:  Seth Shulman, Department of Defense. 
MR. PEDERSEN:  David Pedersen, Navy. 
MR. BUCK:  Gary Buck, Army. 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  Bill Fenaughty, MTD and NFFE. 
MS. ARCHER:  Candace Archer, AFGE. 
MR. GREGORY:  Adair Gregory, NAGE. 
MR. LANDIS:  Steve Landis, Association of Civilian 

 

4 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you all. 
If the people around the edge of the room would also 

So, as I mentioned, the recording equipment is still 

MR. LYNCH:  Luis Lynch, Air Force. 
MS. CHAVES:  Becky Chaves, DoD. 
MR. EICHER:  Mike Eicher, OPM. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez, OPM. 
MS. WALLACE:  Terri Wallace, OPM. 
MR. FENDT:  Karl Fendt, DoD. 
MR. BAUER:  Brian Bauer, DoD. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  A couple of quick 

Technicians. 
 
 
please introduce themselves? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
announcements. 
 
out of commission in the Executive Conference Room in the 
Director's Office, but we think in October, it will be back in 
operation. 
 
 
 
regretfully, the press of other work has prevented as much 
progress as we would have hoped by now on that, but I understand 

Any other update on that, Madeline, that you have? 
MS. GONZALEZ:  No, that's the last thing I heard. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Regarding the map book project, 

 

5 

Any further update on that? 
MR. ALLEN:  One of the issues with this project is 

that it's about 20 percent complete.  There are staffing issues, 
as people may well be aware of, that are making it very 
difficult to get it done, but it will be completed as soon as 
possible.  If any member has a specific map they need, they can 
request it.  Of course, meanwhile we have the old maps that we 
can reference. 
 
 
that the previous version of the software that we were using to 
do the mapping was no longer supported in our operating system, 
so we had to upgrade to a newer version of the software and draw 
the maps from scratch. 
 
baseline map, and after that is completed, it shouldn't take too 
long to produce maps for individual wage areas.  I would say the 
20 percent figure is probably a fair one in terms of the scope 
of the whole project. 
 
As our Chairman says, if anybody has a request for a 
specific map for an area that they are interested in, just let 
us know, and we will see what we can put together. 
 
sure people did not think we had forgotten about this project.  

Right now, we're working on establishing a new 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you.  I just want to make 

 

6 

MR. ALLEN:  The maps that I have seen so far are 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right, right. 
Any other announcements? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, that brings up the review 

It is underway, and progress is being made. 
 
looking considerably better than what we had previously. 
 
 
 
 
of the transcript of our last meeting.  Are there any other 
corrections to that transcript that you want to bring to our 
attention? 
 
 
adopting the transcript of our last meeting? 
 
 
transcript of the previous meeting is adopted. 
 
have been hanging around for quite a while.  Is there a 
particular issue that anyone would like to discuss today?  
 
 
late-arriving New Business item, and that is a letter from AFGE 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, we do have one 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, is there any objection to 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing no objection, the 

That brings up Old Business.  We have four issues that 

 

7 

I know that we won't finish that agenda item today 

President Cox concerning the Northern Mississippi Wage Area, an 
issue that FPRAC wrestled with in 2010, which is an issue 
involving the Army Corps of Engineers employees at a series of 
lakes in Northern Mississippi. 
 
because, obviously, people have not really had an opportunity to 
look at it in any depth. 
 
There is some supporting material from our previous 
work on this issue that we will recirculate.  We figured that 
the members wouldn't have a chance to review it if we circulated 
it just a couple of days before the meeting, so we will 
circulate it in advance of our next meeting. 
 
Is there anything that people want to bring up about 
this issue now in terms of the type of research that we need to 
do, or questions that need to be looked into? 
 
wants to bring anything up right now on this issue. 
 
MS. ARCHER:  I actually just want to apologize for 
this agenda item getting to you so late.  We had anticipated 
putting it on the September agenda, so I appreciate sort of the 
preview of this, and we hope to do more work on this for the 
September meeting. 

I have a few thoughts, but I wonder if anyone else 

 

8 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  We actually don't have a 

MS. ARCHER:  Oh, I thought there was a September 17th 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  No.  The Chair will be on 

MS. ARCHER:  Oh.  My apologies.  So then the October 

MR. ALLEN:  That actually gives us a little more time 

 
September meeting. 
 
meeting. 
 
vacation.  But we have an October meeting. 
 
meeting will be fine. 
 
to look at new information we might have available.  We last 
reviewed this in 2010, so we should be able to obtain updated 
information from the Census Bureau.  I doubt that any of the 
metropolitan statistical areas would have changed in that 
particular area, but we will take a look and see what's changed 
there, if anything. 
 
Federal Officer who just walked into the room to introduce 
herself for the record. 
 
 
 
the meeting late. 

MS. ROBERTS:  Brenda Roberts. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you. 
MS. ROBERTS:  And I apologize for having to arrive to 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I think I would ask our Designated 

 

9 

I thought of three things.  The first is to update the 

The second is the viability of the Northern 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  That's okay. 
MR. ALLEN:  I will take off my second hat now. 
[Laughter.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I have a few thoughts about the 

 
 
 
 
issue. 
 
regulatory criteria analysis of the two counties in question 
where the lakes are located.  Maybe it would be helpful to take 
a fresh look at an updated analysis. 
 
Mississippi Wage Area.  It is one of those low-employment wage 
areas that we are going to be talking about later today in our 
working group.  I don't know the amount of survey data that is 
being collected in that wage area and so forth, and it would be 
nice to have a good picture of the viability of that wage area. 
 
these four lakes should be considered a single activity or 
installation, given the amount of alleged interchange of 
workforce.  How much actual movement of workers from one lake to 
another occurs within the four lakes?  This seems to me to be a 
question for which it should be possible to get some answers, to 
help us understand the issue better. 

Then the third is whether there is a sense in which 

 

10 

MR. ALLEN:  I think they are all good questions. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any other discussion at this time? 
 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  I would only observe that certainly we 
have had discussions about such issues, particularly the Army 
Corps of Engineers in prior meetings, and it's proven useful to 
have representatives from the Army Corps of Engineers present. 
 
This is no slight to our friends from the Department 
of the Army, Gary. 
MR. BUCK:  I know.  None taken. 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  Okay.  So most representatives from the 
 
Office of the Director of Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works, 
Operations, Office would have a grasp of what actually goes on, 
and it would probably have some probative value for any 
discussion of this issue to have them present. 
 
Corps of Engineers? 
 
just showed up on the agenda on Wednesday. 
 
 
happening in 2010.  I wasn't doing this Committee work in 2010, 
so I was not present for those discussions, but we’ve had other 

MR. BUCK:  Okay.  How about back in 2010? 
MR. SHULMAN:  I don't know the history of what was 

MR. BUCK:  Have we requested information from the 

MR. SHULMAN:  We have not done anything because this 

 

11 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yes.  It seems to me that it would 

discussions where Army Corps of Engineers' pay issues have 
arisen at lock and dam situations. 
 
MR. BUCK:  Right. 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  We have had Army Corps of Engineers 
present in the past at meetings in person as well as on the 
phone, and it has proven useful. 
 
be very helpful if we could get that participation and input.  
Thank you for that. 
Unless there's anything else on this issue, we have 
 
laid out a research agenda for it.  So I think that's probably 
as much as we could hope to do on this topic today. 
 
 
 
Business items that people want to bring up this morning? 
 
 
today after this meeting is over, which will be in this same 
room. 
 
I just want to remind people that we don't have a 
September meeting.  Our next meeting will be October 16th. 

Anything else on this issue? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, okay.  If not, any other New 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We do have a working group meeting 

 

12 

If there is no other new business, it would be in 

MR. SHULMAN:  Well, one of them is certainly wrapped 

[Laughter.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, what was he paid, by the 

 
order for us to adjourn.  Is there any objection to our 
adjourning? 
[No audible response.] 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing none -- yes, sir.   
 
 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  I have a question, actually.  Are we 
ever going to get to this Old Business?  Some of this stuff has 
been hanging out here since Christ was a Carpenter. 
 
 
way?  Which wage area was he in? 
 
 
 
Any thoughts on that?  Anybody  on the Committee on either side 
of the table have any thoughts on that? 
[No audible response.] 
 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, I think we need to put our 
heads together and figure out how to deal with those issues.  
Basically, these have been non-consensus issues.  We can either 
walk the plank on them and make a decision or -- 
 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Minimum. 
[Laughter.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So I think that's a good question.  

 

13 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I would say on item (a), the 

up.  Item (c) is certainly wrapped up in an entire -- 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  In a larger issue. 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  In a larger issue. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yes. 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  From my perspective, it would not be 
 
something we want to discuss here until the larger issue is 
addressed. 
 
Review of Lee County, Virginia, is another one of these rather 
low-employment wage areas, which we are going to have a 
discussion on in the working group in a few minutes.  So that 
might or might not be something that is useful to look at 
through the lens of the overall employment level in that wage 
area. 
 
here for quite some time, if my memory is right. 
 
 
item (c) that we can't really get into that until we take care 
of the other big issue. 
 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right. 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  But (a) and (b), we can certainly get 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Well, the first two have been sitting 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right. 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  I understand what Seth is saying about 

 

14 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yes.  Well, I'm all for that.  I 

Anything else this morning? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, any objection to 

moving somewhere, get the ship away from the pier. 
 
second you.  I'm not allowed to second motions, but if I were, I 
would second your motion. 
 
 
 
adjourning? 
[No audible response.] 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Hearing no objection, we 
 
are adjourned, and I don't know if we need a full 10 minutes, 
but in a few minutes, we will begin the working group meeting. 

 -  -  

