 

 

 

1 

572nd FPRAC 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management 

Washington, D.C. 

Thursday, March 8, 2012 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
  Management Members 
  MARK ALLEN, Office of Personnel Management 
  SETH SHULMAN, Department of Defense 
  DARLENE FREEMAN, Department of Air Force 
  CARLOS SAAVEDRA, Department of Navy 
  ANN MARIE HANNON, Department of VA (via telephone) 
 
  Labor Members 
  WILLIAM FENAUGHTY, NFFE, representing MTD 
  KEITH HILL, AFGE (via telephone) 
  JACQUELINE SIMON, AFGE (via telephone) 
  SARAH SUSZCZYK, NAGE 
  STEVEN FISHER, ACT 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors: 
  JEROME MIKOWICZ, Designated Federal Officer, 
  Office of Personnel Management 
  MADELINE GONZALEZ, Office of Personnel Management 
  TERRI AVONDET, Office of Personnel Management 
  SEAN REILLY, Office of Management and Budget 
  H.L. ROVAN, Department of Defense 
  JIM BRADY, Department of Defense 
  KARL FENDT, Department of Defense 
  CRAIG JERABEK, Department of Defense 
  CHRIS LYNCH, Department of Defense 
  TAMMY VANKEUREN, Department of Air Force 
  BARBARA WALKER, Department of Army [via telephone] 
  DENNIS PHELPS, MTD 
 

 

 

 
Recording Secretary:  FEBBIE GRAY 
 
 [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.] 

2 

 

 

 

3 

C O N T E N T S 

 
                                                        Page 
 
I.    Opening/Announcements 
      • Introductions......................................5 
      • Announcements 
        - Charter for the Federal Prevailing Rate 
          Advisory Committee, 572-OC-1.....................7 
        - Membership Balance Plan for the Federal 
          Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee, 572-OC-2.....7 
 
II.   Review of the Minutes of 571st Meeting 
 
III.  Old Business 
      a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2 
         - Total Employment in the Eastern Tennessee 
           Wages Area by County, 566-OPM-1 
         - List of FWS Wage Areas with Fewer than 500 
           Employees, 566-OPM-2 
         - Review of Criteria for Defining Appropriated 
           Fund Wage Areas, 545-OC-1 [REPRINT] 
      b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns 
         - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on  
           Survey Issues Work Group, 561-OC-1 
      c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal 
         Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1 
      d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 
         Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2 
      e. Letter from the American Federation of Government 
         Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC 
         review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA 
         from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to 
         the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1 
      f. Report of the Wage Area Definition Study Group, 
         570-MGT/LBR-1.....................................9 
 
IV.   New Business 
      Updates to 570-MGT/LBR-1............................. 
      • New York 
        - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions 
        - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability 
        - Section IX. Implementation Plan 
        - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule 
        - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules 
        - Section XIII. Other Appropriate Factors 

 

 

 

4 

C O N T E N T S (continued) 

 
                                                        Page 
 
IV.   New Business (continued) 
 
      • Hartford 
        - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions 
        - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability 
        - Section IX. Implementation Plan 
        - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule 
        - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules 
        - Section XIII. Other Appropriate Factors 
      • Boston 
        - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions 
        - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability 
        - Section IX. Implementation Plan 
        - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule 
        - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules 
      • Philadelphia 
        - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions 
        - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability 
        - Section IX. Implementation Plan 
        - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule 
        - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules 
      • Washington 
        - Section VI. Viability of Wage Surveys 
 
          Hagerstown-Martinsburg-Chambersburg, MD wage area 
          and viability of Harrisburg, PA wage area) 
        - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions 
        - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability 
        - Section IX. Implementation Plan 
        - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule 
        - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules 
        - Section XII. Unintended Consequences and Remarks 
      • San Francisco 
        - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions 
        - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability 
        - Section IX. Implementation Plan 
        - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule 
        - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules 
        - Section XII. Unintended Consequences and Remarks 
 
 
 

(definition of "orphan" counties in the 

 

 

 

5 

 

C O N T E N T S (continued) 

 
                                                        Page 
 
IV.   New Business (continued) 
      • Los Angeles 
        - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions 
        - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability 
        - Section IX. Implementation Plan 
        - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule 
        - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules 
      • Other Locality Pay Areas 

 

 

 

6 

P R O C E E D I N G S 

My name is Sheldon Friedman, and welcome to this 572nd 

Why don't you start, Mark? 
MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Seth Shulman, Department of Defense. 
MS. FREEMAN:  Darlene Freeman, Air Force. 
MR. SAAVEDRA:  Carlos Saavedra, Department of the 

 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone.  Sorry 
about the slightly late start.  We've got some folks on the 
phone this morning. 
 
meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee.  As 
usual, why don't we go around the room and introduce ourselves, 
and then we will get to the folks on the phone. 
 
 
 
 
 
Navy. 
 
Official for this meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 
could introduce themselves, please? 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Bill Fenaughty, NFFE. 
MR. PHELPS:  Dennis Phelps, IBEW. 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE. 
MR. FISHER:  Steve Fisher, ACT. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And if the folks on the phone 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  Jerry Mikowicz, the Designated Federal 

 

 

 

7 

MS. HANNON:  Ann Marie Hannon, VA. 
MS. WALKER:  Barbara Walker, Department of Army. 
MS. SIMON:  Jacque Simon, AFGE. 
MR. HILL:  Keith Hill, AFGE. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you.   
And then let's go around the sides of the room, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
please. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
received them.  These are, more or less, bookkeeping 
requirements under the FACA legislation that the General 
Services Administration oversees. 

MS. AVONDET:  Terri Avondet, OPM. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 
MS. VANKEUREN:  Tammy Vankeuren, Air Force. 
MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, DoD. 
MR. FENDT:  Karl Fendt, DoD. 
MR. JERABEK:  Craig Jerabek, DoD. 
MR. LYNCH:  Chris Lynch, DoD. 
MR. ROVAN:  Hank Rovan, DoD. 
MS. GRAY:  Febbie Gray, OPM. 
MR. REILLY:  Sean Reilly, OMB. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Welcome, everyone. 
We have a couple of announcements.  Folks have 

 

 

 

8 

The first item, 572-OC-1, is our charter for FPRAC.  

Which brings us to old business, and I would suggest 

Any questions about either of these documents? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Review of the minutes of the 571st 

 
Every 2 years, we need a new one.  The old one is about to 
expire.  The new one is before you for your information.  The 
second item is the Membership Balance Plan for FPRAC, 572-OC-2, 
which I've been told is a new GSA requirement for FACA 
committees.  It simply states what our past practice has been 
with respect to membership on FPRAC. 
 
 
 
meeting will have to await our next meeting. Since this is an 
extra meeting, we actually don't have them ready yet. 
 
we skip down to item (f), the Report of the Wage Area Definition 
Study Group, 570-MGT/LBR-1. 
 
Group on February 29th.  I believe everyone now has the 
subsequent material that has come through that study group as 
well as a transmittal memo from me, the Chair of the study 
group, to members of FPRAC, and an executive summary.  You have 
in addition documents submitted by DoD, and a letter from 
several meetings back that Barbara Walker has requested be 

We had a 10th and final meeting of the Wage Area Study 

 

 

 

9 

considered for inclusion in the report that comes out of this 
Committee. 
 
563-OPM-1, Statement for the Federal Prevailing Rate 
Advisory Committee, was Director Berry's charge to us to review 
in depth the October 2010 FPRAC recommendation.  We now have the 
report of the study group before us plus these other 
supplementary materials, and we have the very important task of 
getting back to Director Berry pursuant to his request to us as 
to whether or not we favor implementation of that October 2010 
recommendation and whether the study group report before you, 
either as is or with changes that this group would want to make, 
should be passed on to him. 
 
I would not anticipate that we will finish the 
discussion today but am hopeful that we will do so at our 
meeting next week. 
 
suggestion.  It does seem to me that there are three 
possibilities:  forward the study group report as is, amend it 
in some way, or not forward it.  Those seem to be the three 
possibilities. 
 
see how people want to proceed with the discussion. 

As to how we proceed on this discussion, I am open to 

So, with that, let me just throw the floor open and 

 

 

 

10 

MR. ALLEN:  Mr. Chairman, maybe a good starting point 

The October 2010 FPRAC recommendation in my mind was 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
MR. ALLEN:  I'll go back to the reason why we 

 
would be for me to quickly summarize what's in the report and 
what we were asked to do. 
 
 
established a study group and why we have prepared what looks 
like a 600-page report on how the October 2010 FPRAC 
recommendation could be implemented if Director Berry chooses to 
implement the recommendation. 
 
framed as more of a concept than something that could be 
immediately implemented.  As we see from the work that the study 
group was engaged in, we have several hundred pages of 
documentation now that could be provided to Director Berry to 
show him in more detail and far more depth how the  original 
FPRAC recommendation could be put into place through the 
regulatory process of issuing proposed regulation and final 
regulation. 
Briefly, what Director Berry asked FPRAC to take 
 
another look at was an in-depth analysis determining to the 
extent possible a potential set of revised wage area 
definitions, a potential set of revised wage schedules, the 

 

 

 

11 

number of wage employees, changes in pay, and use of pay 
retention (where applicable), the viability of surveys in 
remaining portions of revised wage areas, the capability of the 
lead agency to conduct surveys in remaining portions of revised 
areas, an effective implementation plan and time table with the 
highest priority areas for initial implementation, findings of 
any unintended consequences and applicable remedies, and any 
other appropriate factors to be considered if the FPRAC 
recommendation proposal were to be implemented in whole or in 
part after the pay freeze ends. 
 
met 10 times.  I think we made a great deal of progress in 
addressing the questions that Director Berry posed to the 
Committee. 
 
I would like to thank Madeline Gonzalez in particular 
for leading this project.  I think the work that is reflected in 
the report is outstanding work, and I would also like to thank 
Terri Avondet, Joe Ratcliffe, and Mike Eicher of OPM's Pay 
Systems Staff for helping out with the report as well. 
 
were posed. 
 

I think the report mostly addresses the questions that 

As Chairman Friedman has mentioned, the study group 

As the executive summary to the document shows, we 

 

 

 

12 

covered a lot of ground.  However, there are a couple of things 
that the study group did not reach consensus on, and those 
documents, I believe, have been provided to the Committee for 
its consideration, but I will turn this over to the DoD staff to 
explain those documents. 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  Okay.  As Mark just noted, we have 
submitted two separate documents that were broached during 
various study group meetings that are at the moment not included 
in this study group report, and we believe strongly that in the 
interest of transparency and for the fullness of understanding 
of what the issues are that ultimately the bill payers -- the 
Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and 
other Federal agencies who employ FWS employees -- will have to 
face, we believe that these documents should be submitted as 
part of the findings of the study group. 
 
group noted some challenges with the existing proposed 
implementation plan, and we have submitted 572-DOD-1 as a 
document that would accompany this report, if it were sent at 
all, and I’m talking about a suggested alternative means of 
implementation. 
 

As noted, the DoD staff who participated in the study 

I won't get into the weeds on what is discussed in 

 

 

 

13 

this, because we all have copies of it, and you have the ability 
to read it.  Presumably, members of this Committee who attended 
the study group meetings are also familiar with it. 
 
The second document that DoD would like submitted with 
this report is a list of unintended consequences, which frankly 
are significant.  Aside from the fact that there's been really 
no business case established or business need identified to 
increase prevailing rates for any of these affected employees 
and the total cost to the Department of Defense at a minimum 
could actually approach a half-a-billion dollars over the FYDP 
by the time you fully burden each position to which an increase 
is applied and including all the orphaned counties, we'll set 
the $500-million price tag or roughly $500-million price tag 
aside for the moment.  We will wind up with pay inequities 
across the Department if this were to be implemented the way 
it's discussed. 
 
will have undercompensated other employees in the same pay 
system, in the same locality.  We will have essentially a multi-
tiered compensation system where none existed previously.  There 
will be challenges in gathering data to deal with increases in 
prevailing rates, because we will no longer be able to match up 

We will have overcompensated certain employees.  We 

 

 

 

14 

There are design flaws that we believe need to be 

Future changes to General Schedule boundaries are 

So we have submitted 572-DoD-2 for the Committee's 

to actual prevailing rates in industry. 
 
considered and rectified if, again, this is to go the way it is. 
 
impossible to predict at this stage.  We don't know what will 
happen, and as a result, these prevailing rates may also be 
impacted at that point. 
 
consideration as part of this.  Again, in the interest of 
transparency, everyone who's a decision-maker needs to have all 
the facts in front of him or her, and I think we would be doing 
Director Berry a disservice if this type of information was not 
part of the submission as it currently stands. 
 
Department of the Army asked for inclusion in this report, the 
letter identified as 566-MGT-1 that as the Chairman mentioned 
was read into the record several meetings ago that describes 
Army's serious and significant concerns with implementation of 
this type of proposal and its significant impacts to their 
ability to run an effective and efficient business operation in 
at least one location. 
 

Finally, as requested, as you know late yesterday, the 

Since it has been read into the record already, it is 

 

 

 

15 

a matter of public record.  It is something that this Committee 
has heard, and honestly, we see no reason why, again, in the 
interest of the fullness of the facts and transparency that this 
should also not be considered as part of the submission of this 
report. 
 
MS. SIMON:  This is Jacque Simon from AFGE.  Thanks 
for that, Seth, and also, Mark, thank you for your description 
of what preceded today's meeting, and I also want to thank the 
OPM staff who worked so hard on this.  It's a tremendous amount 
of work, as everybody can see before them, and really 
high-quality work.  And we're extremely grateful for everybody's 
professionalism and conscientious effort to get this done within 
a short time frame. 
With regard to DoD's proposed additions, we really, 
 
really disagree strongly with a lot of what's written in these 
documents and which you must sort of read through.  Most 
importantly, what's called an "alternate implementation plan" is 
not in fact an alternate implementation plan. 
 
facts.  These aren't facts, and one of the problems is that this 
is an alternative proposal.  It would be one thing if it were an 
alternative means of achieving the end envisioned in AFGE's 

And, you know, you kept saying decision-makers need 

 

 

 

16 

And by all means, if the Army wants that kind of plan, 

proposal.  It is not an alternative means for achieving that 
end.  It is a means to achieve an alternative end.  It is not an 
implementation plan for the proposal that the work group 
studied.  It is not.  It is a completely different proposal. 
 
they should go ahead and propose it to FPRAC, and then we will 
study that plan, but this is not an implementation plan for our 
proposal.  That's Item 1. 
 
Item 2 is, you know, you just read into the record the 
number half-a-billion.  That is not an accurate cost estimate.  
It's a cost estimate that's about 250 million dollars more than 
the cost estimate that OPM prepared, and given that facts 
matter, there's no reason to exaggerate its cost.  So it's 
almost like a rhetorical thing:  A billion here, a billion 
there, soon you're talking a lot of money.  Well, let's not use 
the word "billion" unless we're somewhere in the neighborhood of 
billions.  We're talking at worst, at most, you know, given that 
we get pay increases in the future of 1.1 percent, something in 
the neighborhood of 300 to 350 million over 10 years, not 
half-a-billion.  So let's not say half-a-billion. 
 
almost all of these substantive unintended consequences in your 

In addition, as far as the unintended consequences, 

 

 

 

17 

We have dealt with orphan counties, and we would not 

The other thing is, on the third document -- I mean, 

unintended consequences document would be consequences of this 
alternative plan that DoD has proposed, not of our proposal. 
 
have a multi-tiered system with the implementation plan that the 
OPM study put forward.  The multi-tiered, you know, "crazy 
quilt" is a result of DoD's alternative, not the AFGE plan as 
described in the work group report. 
 
we could discuss this further.  I don't want to, you know, 
dominate the discussion.  Regarding the letter from the 
commander -- I don't know if she's a commander or what her 
position is at Tobyhanna.  I don't know if she's even still 
there.  As you noted, that was read into the record of FPRAC.  
Surely, the Director has access to our minutes and the public 
record of what has transpired at FPRAC meetings.  God knows 
there were numerous letters and individuals who testified for 
the record at FPRAC who were in favor of this proposal, and 
people who the Director has as much responsibility to listen to 
as this particular individual from Pennsylvania. 
 
report every piece of testimony and every letter that was 
written on this subject?  No, that's unnecessary.  It's an 

So, you know, are we going to include as part of the 

 

 

 

18 

unnecessary duplication.  These materials are easily available 
to the Director if he wants to go back and look over the record.  
So the third item is entirely unnecessary.  It's just redundant, 
and it doesn't have a place in this report. 
And we do not think that the other two documents do, 
 
either, partially because they are, you know, not responsive to 
the Director's request.  They are not germane to the proposal.  
They are an alternative proposal, and the unintended 
consequences are really a part of DoD's plan for an alternative 
proposal, and they are not really reflective of consequences of 
the implementation of our proposal. 
So I'll leave it at that. 
 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  Okay.  I think we're going to agree to 
disagree on Items 1 and 2, and I'm not going to belabor that, 
but I will tell you how we arrived at the number, which I stated 
earlier. 
The $337-million number over a 5-year FYDP, as 
 
identified by OPM staff, is not our number.  That's OPM's 
number, if I'm correct in that, Mark.  Okay.  And by OPM's own 
admission, that number may very well be on the low side.  
However, that is simply a salary dollar number.  That does not 
account for a fully burdened amount of money.  When I say "fully 

 

 

 

19 

MS. SIMON:  Well, we all know that's going down, don't 

burdened," when we pay an individual, we also include on top of 
that an additional 36.76 percent for all of the various benefits 
and entitlement costs that go with each position. 
 
we? 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  Regardless of that, we have to include 
the cost for the bill payer, and that would be, in this case, 
the Department of Defense, and the Department of Veterans 
Affairs.  So that number, the total final number has to be 
reflective of what the sum outlay for each Federal Department is 
going to be.  So, when you multiple 36.76 by $337 million, you 
wind up with $460.88 million, and this number, as also 
established by OPM, does not include the orphan counties. 
So my rounding close to half-a-billion dollars is not 
 
out of line with what the actual cost will be to the government, 
okay?  I'm not making these numbers up.  This is actually how we 
do the calculations. 
 
So, when you get right down to it, we are just trying 
to arrive at what the true cost is, and ultimately, the burden 
has to be paid by the American taxpayer, okay?  So the numbers 
are what they are, and they may well be on the low side.  They 
might be slightly high.  We won't know.  But I will tell you 

 

 

 

20 

MS. SIMON:  Oh, I don't -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  -- making these -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- think anybody would -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  -- numbers up. 
MS. SIMON:  -- disagree that that's how you do the 

that to do the right math, you have to include the fully 
burdened cost.  That's how we do the budgeting for these sorts 
of things. 
 
And every individual activity that has employees does 
it exactly the same way, and I will look to my colleagues from 
Air Force and Navy who are sitting at the table with me.  And 
OPM will bear this out.  This is how we do the math.  I'm not -- 
 
 
 
 
 
math.  I just think that in the executive summary, it is 
described as the additional wage cost.  I mean, it's not 
misrepresented. 
 
be identified.  Ultimately, that's what the bill payer has to 
worry about. 
In that particular case, that would be us, and there 
 
is a direct impact to the Department's ability to carry out its 
mission when you increase costs across an organization the size 
of ours. 

MR. SHULMAN:  Okay, gotcha.  But the true cost has to 

 

 

 

21 

You know, when you talk about it on an individual 

 
case-by-case basis, it doesn't seem like a lot of money.  Just 
like the half-percent salary increase that Congress may or may 
not vote on this year, that for us individually doesn't cost a 
lot, but for the government as a whole, it's a little bit more 
than that.  It's about a billion dollars, I'd say.  So you can't 
look at this on the individual level. You've got to look at it 
in the aggregate, and that's why I use the numbers I do. 
 
They're not meant to shock.  They are very real 
numbers, and there is a very real impact to a Department that is 
currently engaged in efficiencies and effectiveness studies with 
regard to how we save money, and we still haven't faced the 
issue of sequestration, which is also looming on the horizon.  
And even if we don't have that, we are going to face more cuts. 
 
So the monies have to come from somewhere.  This is a 
very real and legitimate concern that the Department's 
leadership has.  I think the Director -- 
 
 
 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  We're all -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  -- would be -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- aware of the budget situation. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Okay. 
MS. SIMON:  That may -- 

 

 

 

22 

MR. SHULMAN:  The Director -- I mean, that's -- but 

 
that should be -- 
 
 
 
 
 
or on this call. 

MS. SIMON:  But nobody -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  -- part of the -- 
MS. SIMON:  Nobody -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  -- consideration. 
MS. SIMON:  -- needs to persuade anybody in this room 

MR. SHULMAN:  No, that's fine.  All we're saying--      

 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Let me make a suggestion then. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Let me make a suggestion that 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  I agree with Jacque.  I don't think 

MR. SHULMAN:  All we're saying is that Director Berry 

 
should have that number in front of him. 
 
others on either side of the table who haven't spoken yet might 
want to have an opportunity to weigh in.  Anybody? 
 
that these dogmas should be part of the report. 
 
or could stop DoD from submitting it to Director Berry or OMB or 
anybody else they want to, but I don't believe they should be a 
part of the report itself. 
 

You know, there is no way that anybody would want to 

MR. PHELPS:  I agree -- 

 

 

 

23 

MS. SUSZCZYK:  I agree. 
 
MR. PHELPS:  -- that they should not be. 
 
 
MR. SAAVEDRA:  I believe as much information as we're 
able to provide must be forwarded, noting that no business case 
was established as to why the proposal was introduced in the 
first place.  What is it that we were trying to fix?  That was 
never established.  So we have to be fully up front, engaged to 
note we're not fixing anything, and it's going to cost this 
much. 
 
this, and Director Berry must know that.  It just needs to be 
said.  These are facts. 
 
the report. 
 
MR. SAAVEDRA:  No, this Committee should be 
responsible in providing the information.  We have the 
information. 
 
know, this proposal has already been voted on and sent to 
Director Berry.  All he asked for was certain -- 
 
 

MR. SAAVEDRA:  Were the facts. 
MR. PHELPS:  -- specific information. 

MR. PHELPS:  Well, I think Jacque was right.  You 

The cost to the Federal Government, to the taxpayer is 

MR. PHELPS:  Fine, send it to him as your comments to 

 

 

 

24 

If DoD or Navy or Army wants to submit, you know, 

MR. SAAVEDRA:  What he asked for were facts. 
MR. PHELPS:  Certain specific information afterwards 

 
 
-- 
MR. SAAVEDRA:  And the facts. 
 
MR. PHELPS:  -- and that counter-proposal is not what 
 
was asked for.  He didn't ask for a counter-proposal.  He asked 
for facts that were out there and how it would be implemented, 
and I don't believe that those documents reflect what the 
Director asked for. 
 
these other documents to show what their counter-proposal to the 
proposal would be, then they're more than welcome to, but I 
don't believe they should be a part of the report of this 
Committee. 
 
question?  And we don't actually have motions before us yet, but 
are some of the Management folks saying that if these three 
pieces were included in the report that you would then support 
by consensus sending it to the Director? 
 
 
exactly we're talking about here. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Can I just ask a clarification 

MR. SHULMAN:  That's a fair question. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I just want to understand what 

 

 

 

25 

MR. SHULMAN:  That's a fair question.  I think we 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Do you want to have a caucus?  

So the folks on the phone, we are going to have to cut 

MS. HANNON:  All right, thank you. 
MS. SIMON:  Okay.  Should the labor people stay on the 

 
probably want to step outside for a few minutes and talk about 
that. 
 
Okay. 
 
you off and then get you back.   
 
 
phone or -- 
 
 
simpler, right?  Yeah. 
 
 
caucus, and we are back in session. 
 
from the caucus? 
 
you had a question for us, and we took the opportunity to 
discuss your question at caucus, and we've come back with a 
question. 

MR. PHELPS:  Yeah. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I guess you can.  It would be 

[Off the record for Management caucus.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Management is back from its 

Is there anything that you folks want to report back 

MR. SHULMAN:  Pursuant to your request, Mr. Chairman, 

 

 

 

26 

MS. SIMON:  Well, we probably need to caucus, but my 

 
We would like to know what Labor's position would be 
regarding incorporating DOD-572-1 and DOD-572-2 and the list of 
all documents supporting or opposing the original AFGE proposal 
that have already been submitted into FPRAC for the record in 
the final report of the working group's analysis, as requested 
by Director Berry in 565-OC-2. 
 
first reaction is that this is another thing that might delay us 
because of the time it would take to gather all those materials. 
 
MR. ALLEN:  Jacque, I think our plan, regardless of 
what happens today, is for Madeline to put the documentation 
together in a final format that can go forward to Director 
Berry.  It’s going to take her a little while to do that since 
the report is so voluminous and we have to add the other 
documents, because they are already part of the FPRAC record.  
That shouldn't -- 
 
 
 
caucus.  AFGE would insist on inclusion of an additional 
document that responds to the so-called implementation plan B 
and the so-called unintended consequences B, because, you know, 

MS. SIMON:  Well, I'll -- 
MR. ALLEN:  -- take too long. 
MS. SIMON:  -- tell you one thing, before we even 

 

 

 

27 

As it was, we were expecting, regardless of how it 

there was no sort of sense that, okay, if it wasn't written 
today, it can't go forward, if that's going to be the -- you 
know, if it's going to be a thousand pages rather than 600 
pages.  That would definitely -- I know AFGE would insist on a 
written response. 
 
went today, that DoD would be submitting to the Director their 
documents, and we would be submitting our refutation of those 
documents -- or of the, you know, arguments put forward in those 
documents. 
 
If those documents become part of the official work 
group report, you know, it could put us back weeks or months 
until we have several more meetings where we discuss the AFGE 
response to the DoD documents, which is why it makes so much 
more sense for DoD to, you know, put forward their documents, 
you know, independently as sort of a dissenting report or 
whatever, in which case we would submit additional documents as 
well, but we can't just stop the clock today and say anything 
not in today can't go if DoD's stuff goes. 
 
I mean, obviously, you know, we can always just write 
a letter to the Director, but I guess everything would depend on 
how much delay this would entail. 

 

 

 

28 

MR. PHELPS:  To me, it would seem redundant to put 

MS. SIMON:  It's already way, way -- 
MR. PHELPS:  -- in on -- 
[Simultaneous speaking.] 
MS. SIMON:  -- way, way, way, way, way behind 

 
everything -- 
 
 
 
 
schedule. 
 
stuff that's already been submitted is already there. 
 
MS. SIMON:  Right. 
 
MR. PHELPS:  The one that Army read into the record a 
while back is already there, you know.  It would just seem to me 
like we'd be burdening down this to stick everything in there, 
and I don't think -- I personally wouldn't agree to do it just 
so DoD can get what they want in today, you know. 
 
Director Berry as not part of the report. 
 
something? 
 
We weren't intending -- the last item was not an idea -- the 
idea is not to submit the actual documents but a page with 

As Jacque said, you know, they can always submit it to 

MR. PHELPS:  That's all -- you know, all the other 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, do you want to say 

MR. SHULMAN:  Yeah.  I would just make an observation.  

 

 

 

29 

MR. SHULMAN:  That would be the Deputy Chief of Staff 

MS. SIMON:  As a -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  -- about -- 
[Simultaneous speaking.] 
MS. SIMON:  As a substitute for the letter from that 

references of those documents, so not the actual papers 
themselves, but there have been a number of items that have been 
submitted for the record in this room.  Then we would simply 
reference those items as an appendix to the report, nothing 
more, nothing less.  We're not talking— 
 
 
 
 
Marriott guy? 
 
for Tobyhanna.  Yes. 
 
 
for Civilian Personnel Policy. 
 
 
Your point was well taken that there had been a lot of other 
things submitted, and I was agreeing with you that, yes, we want 
those to be included in the record too.  It's part of the 
fullness of the -- 
 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  Mr. Marriott. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Through Dr. Duncan who is the Army G1 

MS. SIMON:  Right. 
MR. SHULMAN:  But, yes, it wouldn't be a substitute.  

MS. SIMON:  No, no, no. 

 

 

 

30 

MR. SHULMAN:  -- of the disclosure. 
MS. SIMON:  I hear what you're saying.  What I'm just 

MR. SHULMAN:  Yes. 
MS. SIMON:  -- copy of -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  Yes. 
MS. SIMON:  -- Mr. Marriott's letter. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Yes, exactly right, just as -- 
MS. SIMON:  It would be a page with a lot of 

 
 
asking you, instead of the actual -- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
references? 
 
 
just trying to understand what you're saying. 
 
 
issue from those other two DoD documents. 
 
documents?  One reference? 
MR. SHULMAN:  572-DOD-1 and 572-DOD-2, as submitted 
 
today for discussion, we would like to know what your position 
is going to be if we tabled this as a motion with regard to 
putting these in the report. 

MR. SHULMAN:  You got it. 
MS. SIMON:  Is that what you are envisioning?  I'm 

MR. SHULMAN:  Yes, just a reference page.  You got it. 
MS. SIMON:  Okay.  Well, you know, that's a separate 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Do you mean all three of these 

 

 

 

31 

MS. SIMON:  Well, and we're responding back that if 

Well, how about this, Seth, if we could just step back 

MR. SHULMAN:  We haven't actually determined that, but 

 
you want to have these things in the report, then, you know, the 
unions are going to have a refutation in the report, which is 
why we want this to, you know -- 
 
a second.  Is your proposal that Management is fine with 
submitting this document to Director Berry with your 
implementation plan, your unintended consequences, and a page 
full of references? 
 
we're asking what Labor's position would be on that.  Do you 
think that we would be able to reach consensus if that were the 
case? 
 
 
 
before us. 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  Yes.  So you said you might need to 
caucus for that.  We believe that we might be able to reach 
consensus on submitting the report with those two documents -- 
with DoD Items 572 DOD-1, 572-DOD-2, and a list of references 
attached, but that -- 

MS. SIMON:  Well, do you? 
MR. SHULMAN:  I would like to think so. 
MS. SIMON:  Well, okay.  I mean, that's the question 

 

 

 

32 

MR. PHELPS:  I don't think we need to caucus. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
MR. PHELPS:  I mean, if the rest of Labor would like 

MS. SIMON:  Okay, I guess we -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  -- really depends on -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- do need a -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  -- Labor's position. 
MS. SIMON:  -- caucus then. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So, did I hear a request for a 

 
 
 
 
 
 
caucus, does Labor need one? 
 
 
 
to, you know, we could certainly do that, but I wouldn't be able 
to support that. 
 
 
that there would not be consensus to proceed then. 
 
 
 
 
 
we are back in session.  Do you folks have something to report 
in response? 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Nor ACT. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I guess that answers the question 

MS. SIMON:  Can we have a caucus? 
MR. PHELPS:  Sure, we can, Jacque. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  You can certainly have a caucus.  
[Off the record for Labor caucus.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Labor has finished its caucus, and 

 

 

 

33 

Well, we can start discussion on that or we can -- if 

MR. HILL:  Yeah.  Mr. Chair, this is Keith Hill. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yes, Keith. 
 
 
MR. HILL:  I'd like to make a motion that we advance 
the report to Director Berry sans Management's counter-proposal 
as is, and I am asking for a second on that motion. 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Seconded. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  It's been moved and 
 
seconded to send the report as is from the study group to 
Director Berry. 
 
there's a motion to postpone, we can take that up. 
MS. SIMON:  I think the discussion is pretty much what 
 
we had earlier.  You know, there's certainly nothing to prevent 
DoD from submitting additional materials, including a reference 
to all the letters and testimony for and against this proposal 
that have been provided to FPRAC, and, you know, the unions will 
do the same, but the document is what it is.  It's a product of 
the work group, and OPM's staff and you know, we all had lots of 
input as it was being prepared, and it's ready.  It's ready for 
the Director. 
 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any discussion? 
MR. SHULMAN:  That is but one view, and I would not 

 

 

 

34 

MR. SHULMAN:  We so request motion to postpone until 

MR. ALLEN:  And seconded. 
MR. HILL:  I think there's a motion on the table 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, there is, but I think 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any discussion? 
MR. SHULMAN:  Nor discuss it today. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Nor discuss it today. 
Well, you can make a motion to postpone consideration 

submit that we are prepared to vote on this today. 
 
 
 
 
until the next meeting. 
 
next week. 
 
 
already, isn't there? 
 
a motion to postpone, if there's consensus on it -- maybe 
there's not.  Maybe people want to go ahead.  If there's not 
consensus on the motion to postpone, then we'll go back to the 
main motion.   
 
 
 
it follow Robert's Rules of Order? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We do follow Robert’s Rule of 
 
Order, except the Chairman is ignorant of them.  So if I'm 

MR. HILL:  We will -- 
[Simultaneous speaking.] 
MR. HILL:  I am unfamiliar with FPRAC procedure.  Will 

 

 

 

35 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  I guess -- let me see. 
MR. HILL:  So I guess we have to -- 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So there would not be consensus 

violating them, let me know. 
 
MR. HILL:  Well, I think there's a motion on the 
table.  I don't consider the motion to postpone a friendly 
amendment. 
 
 
 
then to postpone this until a week from today? 
 
vote? 
 
discussion on either side, we can vote. 
 
the motion to postpone? 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We'd be voting on the -- the 
motion to postpone would only be if by consensus, so we're--
 
 
to be consensus. 
 
done with the discussion of the other motion? 
 

MS. SUSZCZYK:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  About which there does not appear 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We are discussing Keith's motion, 

MS. SIMON:  No.  Well, I don't know.  Want to do a 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Unless there's any further 

MS. SUSZCZYK:  Are we voting on the first motion or 

MS. SIMON:  Okay.  So are we going to vote?  Are we 

 

 

 

36 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
[Off the record for Management caucus.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Management has concluded its 

Would you like to report anything from your caucus? 
MR. ALLEN:  We have a substitute motion to introduce, 

and Management has requested a caucus. 
 
 
 
caucus, and we are back in session. 
 
 
a substitute to the main motion that AFGE made.  Management 
would like to introduce a substitute motion to incorporate 
572-DOD-1 and 572-DOD-2 and a list of all documents supporting 
or opposing the AFGE proposal which have been submitted to FPRAC 
for the record into the Final Report of the working group's 
analysis as requested by the Director of OPM in 565-OC-2. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there a second for that? 
MR. SHULMAN:  Second the motion. 
 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So, if I'm correct in my Rules of 
Order, we debate that one first. 
 
 
 
earlier. 
 

MR. SHULMAN:  I believe that's right, yes. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any response or debate on that? 
MR. PHELPS:  We've already had the debate on that 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 

 

 

 

37 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  We already talked about it. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Are we ready to -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  We would merely remind the Committee 

 
 
 
membership that we were asked to do this.  The Director gave us 
specific instruction.  He said it in 565-OC-2 that this should 
be in the report.  We haven't done anything other than what the 
Director has asked for in making this motion, and failing to 
adhere to the Director's request is in itself going to be a 
little bit of a challenge for this Committee to explain. 
 
substitute motion? 
 
 
vote.  Do you want to poll people, Madeline? 
 
Management members present now because Ann Marie Hannon at VA 
had to disconnect from the phone temporarily.  Which four 
members are voting on the Labor side, please? 
 
 
 
talking about? 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  I'm voting. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  And one AFGE member.  Okay. 
MS. SIMON:  What about one AFGE member?  What are you 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, I believe we're ready to 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any further discussion of the 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Who is voting?  We only have four 

 

 

 

38 

MS. SIMON:  Okay.  Keith, do you want to vote for 

MR. HILL:  Sure.  Which proposal are we voting on 

MS. SIMON:  That's in our rules? 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yes. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yes.  It doesn't affect the 

 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  There are only four Management 
representatives present, so one Labor representative needs to 
recuse himself or herself. 
 
 
 
outcome. 
 
AFGE? 
 
first? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We're going to vote first on the 
 
substitute motion just offered by Management to incorporate 572-
DOD-1, 572-DOD-2, and the list of items that have been submitted 
or appeared at our meetings pertaining to this matter.  So 
that's the motion. 
 
 
 
 
Order, but I'm not sure a substitute motion could be an-- 
 

Is that substitute motion clear to everybody? 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  Well, I just have a question. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Sure. 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  I'm not an expert on Robert's Rules of 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  An amendment? 

 

 

 

39 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  I appreciate that.  I think 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Changing it. 
MR. HILL:  Actually, actually it's a separate and 

 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  -- amended motion, another motion.  
I'm not trying to split hairs.  I just think we should get it 
right. 
 
it would be an amendment to the main motion.  It's taking 
Keith's motion and saying -- 
 
 
distinct proposal or amendment or motion.  It's not -- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
procedurally? 
 
 
 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  It's not a friendly -- 
MR. HILL:  -- an amendment -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- amendment -- 
MR. HILL:  -- to my motion. 
MS. SIMON:  -- anyway. 
MR. HILL:  It's not a friendly amendment. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right.  So what does that mean 

MS. SIMON:  It's an amendment -- 
[Simultaneous speaking.] 
MS. SIMON:  -- by way of a substitution. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Are you saying we need to vote? 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  It is two separate motions. 

 

 

 

40 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So does that mean we need 

MR. HILL:  I would say so. 
MR. SHULMAN:  However, this motion is the precursor, 

 
to take up the first motion first?  I'm happy to do it in 
whichever order is correct from the parliamentary standpoint. 
 
MS. SIMON:  I think you take up the first -- Keith, 
you take up the first motion first, right? 
 
 
the natural precursor in terms of order of operations to the 
motion that Keith submitted.  So absent consideration of this 
motion first, we are not able to entertain the previous motion 
at all, really. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
voted on before the original one, given that it's not a friendly 
amendment to the existing -- to the first motion.  I mean, it's 
not like you're changing "of" to "to." 
MR. SHULMAN:  Well, we would ask you then to kindly 
 
pull your motion until we have determined the outcome of this 

MS. SIMON:  I mean, you can entertain it. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah, but which one--  
MR. HILL:  You can amend the -- 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- is the question. 
MR. HILL:  -- motion, but you can't change the motion. 
MS. SIMON:  You can't have your subsequent motion 

 

 

 

41 

MS. SIMON:  Well, no, we want to vote on our motion 

MR. HILL:  The motion stands. 
MR. SHULMAN:  I don't think we can vote on it, not 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, I think it's been considered 

one. 
 
first. 
 
 
without consideration of our motion.   
 
in debate.  I mean, I don't know what further consideration -- 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  The vote then would be on an incomplete 
-- from our perspective, from Management's perspective, it would 
be on an incomplete report.  We're asking -- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
right, if that's -- 
 
your amendment.  

MS. SIMON:  Well, then you -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  -- for consideration -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- vote against -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  -- of the documents -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- it. 
[Simultaneous speaking.] 
MR. SHULMAN:  The documents will be in there. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah.  I guess you then vote no, 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Just vote no against it and then go to 

 

 

 

42 

MS. SIMON:  I mean, you vote against it, so that we 

MR. SHULMAN:  I don't know how you can vote on it and 

MR. HILL:  Well, the motion to -- 
[Simultaneous speaking.] 
MR. HILL:  -- submit your documents should have been 

 
can vote on other things, and, you know, we just proceed. 
 
AFGE has proposed when the -- 
 
 
 
proposed before my amendment. 
 
ignore the fact that the Director has asked us for certain 
things to be included in the report that no one is interested in 
entertaining. 
 
MR. PHELPS:  Well, that's your opinion.  That's not 
our opinion, and there's a motion on the floor, and I'll call 
the motion. 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  All right.  So, if there's a difference 
of opinion, I think that there is something -- there's a clear 
legal issue at stake here.  So we probably need an attorney to 
tell us whether it's appropriate or not. 
 
that when a motion is called you have a vote. 
 

MR. SHULMAN:  Again, I don't see how you vote on what 

MR. PHELPS:  Yeah, but Robert's Rules of Order says 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We just need to follow Robert's 

 

 

 

43 

MS. SIMON:  I know them -- 
MR. PHELPS:  I know them fairly well -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- backwards and forwards. 
MR. PHELPS:  -- and I know once a motion is on the 

Rules of Order.  Does anybody know them in this room or on the 
telephone? 
 
 
 
 
floor, the motion -- 
 
 
 
is a friendly amendment to the amendment. 
MR. PHELPS:  That stops debate. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Then let's vote. 
 
 
MR. HILL:  The debate was held already. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So I'm going to state the 
motion.  The motion is to send the report that we have received 
from the study group as is to Director Berry.  Did I state it 
correctly? 
 
 
 
 

MR. HILL:  Well, you have to vote on -- 
MR. PHELPS:  -- is called, you have to vote. 
MR. HILL:  -- the first amendment first, unless there 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  All right.   
MS. HANNON:  Hi. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Did somebody just join us? 

 

 

 

44 

MS. HANNON:  Yeah.  This is Ann Marie calling in.  I'm 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  So we have 5 Management and 5 Labor 

 
in transit now, so I should be able to rejoin the meeting. 
 
 
members now. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.   
 
MR. HILL:  It's 5 and 5 now. 
 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Ann Marie, we're just about to 
vote on Keith's original motion, which is to send the report 
that FPRAC received from the study group as is to Director 
Berry. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

So do you want to call the roll for voting, Madeline? 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Okay.  MTD? 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  Yes. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  AFGE? Jacque? 
MS. SIMON:  Yes. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  AFGE? Keith? 
MR. HILL:  Yes. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  NAGE? 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Yes. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  ACT? 
MR. FISHER:  Yes. 

 

 

 

45 

MS. GONZALEZ:  OPM? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  No. 
 
MS. GONZALEZ:  DoD? 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  No. 
 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Air Force? 
 
MS. FREEMAN:  No. 
 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Navy? 
 
MR. SAAVEDRA:  No. 
 
MS. GONZALEZ:  VA? 
 
MS. HANNON: No. 
 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Mr. Chairman, the vote is 5 to 5. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So we have a tie, and it's up to 
 
me then to resolve this.  I vote yes.  I believe we should send 
this report on.  I believe those who have a different view on 
the Management side should feel every encouragement to get their 
view to Director Berry. 
 
 
can now vote to amend the report. 
 
 
incorporate 572-DOD-1, 572-DOD-2, and a list of documents 

[Technical disturbance:  Loud Telephone Audio Noise.] 
MR. SHULMAN:  It's not necessarily in conflict.  You 

[Technical disturbance:  Loud Telephone Audio Noise.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We now vote on Mark's motion to 

 

 

 

46 

MS. SIMON:  And that is the motion to delay until next 

[Technical disturbance:  Loud Telephone Audio Noise.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I'll state the motion again.  

[Technical disturbance:  Loud Telephone Audio Noise.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  There is a motion on the floor, 

supporting or opposing the AFGE proposal which have been 
submitted to FPRAC for the record into the final report of the 
study group that was requested by the Director of OPM. 
 
 
which is the one we are now voting. 
 
week a vote on the motion to include the other items?  I mean, 
there are two motions on the floor, right? 
 
 
It's the motion that Management offered, which is to incorporate 
572-DOD-1, 572-DOD-2, and a list of items that have been 
submitted to FPRAC on one side or the other side of the table on 
the underlying issue that we're considering, into the study 
group report. 
 
already been addressed in our previous vote. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, that's what I thought, too, 
 
but Management would like a recorded vote on that, and there’s a 
motion before us.  So I don't know of any reason not to have the 
vote. 

MR. HILL:  Mr. Chair, I would submit that that's 

 

 

 

47 

MR. SHULMAN:  Yeah.  I would like to make a few 

[Technical disturbance:  Loud Telephone Audio Noise.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Unless there's further discussion, 

 
 
I suggest we vote.  Any further discussion of it? 
 
observations again.  Going back to what Director Berry asked us 
for in 565-OC-2:  The working group will review all of the 
information developed for the analysis as outlined above.  If 
any working group member does not agree with OPM's proposed 
methodology for any of the analysis, the working group chair 
will provide a reasonable amount of time for discussion of 
alternatives.  If consensus or creative resolution is not 
reached in a timely manner, the working group chair will note 
any remaining differences of opinion for the record, with a 
summary explanation and opportunity for more detailed 
explanation for the record and move forward on the study.  Any 
such notes may be made part of the final report at the request 
of any party. 
 
Management requests for these documents to be made part of the 
final study report. 
 
suggests that the Chair should summarize the disagreement. 

And so technically we don't need to vote on this.  

MS. SIMON:  Seth, this is Jacque.  What you just read 

 

 

 

48 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  That document was FPRAC's 

MS. SIMON:  Oh, no, no, no.  There was plenty of 

[Technical disturbance:  Loud Telephone Audio Noise.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So we have a motion before us 

 
instruction to the study group, I believe. 
 
 
that's been seconded.  I'll state it -- I guess I've stated it 
already.  I don't need to state it again, do I? 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  Not for me. 
 
 
MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  Can we just clarify that what Seth 
just read was not the Director's instructions to FPRAC but the 
FPRAC's instructions to the study group? 
 
 
wasn't consensus could have been summarized by the Chair; 
however, these weren't issues on which there -- my contention is 
these are not issues about which there weren't consensus.  These 
are separate issues.  This is a different proposal. 
MR. SHULMAN:  My observation would be certainly from 
 
what the DoD staff has shared in that there was quite a bit of 
discussion on these items in the working group, and there was no 
consensus reached, so I have to take them at their word, 
honestly. 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  That's correct. 
MS. SIMON:  And, you know, the issues on which there 

 

 

 

49 

MR. SHULMAN:  I don't know that that's an accurate 

MS. SIMON:  No, of course not, but that's -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  Then there is a lack of consensus. 
[Simultaneous speaking.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Any further discussion? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, I suggest we vote. 
MS. FREEMAN:  Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to say that 

discussion, and the discussion was these documents were 
irrelevant to our proposal. 
 
reflection of how the DoD staff feels about them. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as far as the submission of additional information -- you're 
saying that the paragraph read earlier by Seth in 565-OC-2--that 
this was not from the Director, but that this is what the charge 
is for the FPRAC working group, if that's the direction that 
they were going in the beginning, regardless of the working 
group, then that's what everybody was thinking, and this is what 
they were charged with doing. 
 
If this is what they thought that they were charged with, this 
is what they were supposed to be doing, then this is what, you 
know, the Committee ended up doing, so this is why we're saying 

So, you know, there's no need to change it at the end.  

 

 

 

50 

MS. WALKER:  This is Barbara.  May I address the 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Sure. 
MS. WALKER:  I was involved with many of those working 

that the information or whatever should be there, because we 
thought that this is what the working group was charged with. 
 
MR. PHELPS:  Well, those of us that were involved, 
this is what we ended up doing, not the document submitted right 
towards the end by DoD. 
 
Committee? 
 
 
group meetings, and there was quite a bit of discussion about 
additional documentation that could be provided into the study.  
And it was the consensus -- well, we didn't even have to come to 
a consensus according to our rules. 
 
we had that was relevant to the cause at hand could be provided, 
and that's what we've done.  And it seems now that the union 
members are preventing Management from providing that 
documentation.  I don't understand that. 
 
 
described. 
 

MS. SIMON:  Barbara, this is Jacque Simon from AFGE. 
You know, our contention is not the way, what you just 

What we were told is any additional information that 

MS. WALKER:  Well, it absolutely is, Jacque.  We -- 

 

 

 

51 

MS. WALKER:  I'm not even talking about the 

MS. SIMON:  I'm sorry, but it's -- 
MS. WALKER:  -- discussed it -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- not. 
MS. WALKER:  -- in the meeting. 
MS. SIMON:  I mean, we don't think that the 

 
 
 
 
 
alternative proposal is responsive to our proposal. 
 
alternative proposal.  I'm talking about Management having the 
ability to provide additional relevant documentation in the 
study. 
MS. SIMON:  Well, see, that's the key thing. 
 
MS. WALKER:  The document that I asked to be included 
 
had already been read into the record.  Providing it to Director 
Berry in conjunction with this study is very relevant, because 
that paper was relevant to your proposal. 
MS. SIMON:  You're back to Mr. Marriott's letter? 
 
MS. WALKER:  I'm back to any documentation that is to 
 
be supplied to help the Director make a well-educated decision 
on this proposal. 
 
conversation right now for the first time this morning? 
 

MS. SIMON:  Barbara, are you just coming into the 

MS. WALKER:  No, I'm not. 

 

 

 

52 

MS. SIMON:  Oh.  Because I thought, you know, that we 

MS. WALKER:  Exactly. 
MS. SIMON:  -- it sounds like you're talking about 

MS. WALKER:  Right. 
MS. SIMON:  It wasn't just Mr. Marriott's letter, but 

 
had sort of moved on to a different proposal from Management, 
which was not Mr. Marriott's letter by itself but a page of 
citations of all material that had been introduced to FPRAC, 
testimony letters, et cetera relevant to the proposal. 
 
 
-- 
 
 
just Mr. Marriott's letter? 
 
include any relevant documentation into this survey report. 
 
would exclude the alternative implementation thing and the 
so-called unintended consequences and just the list of relevant 
testimonies and letters? 
 
bottom line of were we or were we not allowed to provide 
additional information in this survey report. 
 
MS. SIMON:  I think -- I think not. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.   Unless there's some 
 

MS. WALKER:  No, I agree with DoD's proposal to 

MS. SIMON:  Well, are you proposing a new motion which 

MS. WALKER:  No, I'm not.  I'm trying to get to the 

 

 

 

53 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
MR. HILL:  Could you please read the motion again? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  The motion is to incorporate 

Did I state the motion accurately? 
MR. ALLEN:  That is a fair representation, yes. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  And, Madeline, would you 

further discussion, I believe we're ready to vote. 
 
 
 
Documents 572-DOD-1 and 572-DOD-2 from today's FPRAC meeting 
plus a list of items that are relevant to the underlying issue 
that have been submitted to FPRAC, those three things, 
incorporate them into the report that FPRAC will send to 
Director Berry. 
 
 
 
call the roll? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

MS. GONZALEZ:  OPM? 
MR. ALLEN:  Yes. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  DoD? 
MR. SHULMAN:  Yes. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Air Force? 
MS. FREEMAN:  Yes. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Navy? 
MR. SAAVEDRA:  Yes. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  VA? 

 

 

 

54 

MS. HANNON:  Yes. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Metal Trades? 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  No. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  AFGE?  Keith? 
MR. HILL:  No. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  AFGE?  Jacque? 
MS. SIMON:  No. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  NAGE? 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  No. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  ACT? 
MR. FISHER:  No. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  The vote is a tie. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  What a surprise.  Well, I have to 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cast the deciding vote.  I vote no -- [inaudible].  
 
 
memo to convey the extent of this disagreement and the fact that 
there will be additional materials provided to the Director in 
very high probability from the Management side. 
 
offered at the outset to Madeline, to Terri, to everyone else 
who did such hard and long work on this report.  Thank you all, 

[Technical disturbance:  Loud Telephone Audio Noise.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And we'll try in the transmittal 

With that, I want to reiterate thanks that Mark 

 

 

 

55 

Is there any other business that needs to come before 

and thanks to all the participants in the study group and our 10 
meetings and all the work we did.  Thank you all here today.  I 
know everybody is not happy with the outcome.  There would have 
been no way for that to be possible. 
 
us today? 
 
 
 
to that.  So we've got consensus on something. 
 
 
 

MR. PHELPS:  Motion to adjourn. 
MR. ALLEN:  Second. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  I bet there is no objection 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  One out of seven ain't bad. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah. 

•-•-• 

