 

1 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

 
 
 
 

 

581st FPRAC 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

Thursday, December 13, 2012 

ROOM 7517 

Office of Personnel Management 

Washington, D.C. 20415 

 

 

 

ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
 
Management Members: 
 
 
Mark Allen, OPM  
     Steven Rumble, DoD 
Darlene Freeman, AF 
 
 
R. Lamar Williams, NAVY 
 
Sian Fisher, VA 
 
 
Labor Members: 
 
 
Eugene Hudson, AFGE 
 
Jacque Simon, AFGE 
Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE 
 
 
Steve Landis, ACT 
 
 
 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors: 
 
Jerry Mikowicz, Designated Federal Official, OPM
 
Madeline Gonzalez, OPM 
Mike Eicher, OPM 
 
 
Terri Avondet, OPM 
 
Jennifer Dorsey, OPM 
 
Nate Somers, OPM-CLA 
     Jim Brady, DoD 
     Hank Rovan, DoD 
Karl Fendt, DoD 
 
 
Melissa Arroyo, NAVY 
 
Stephanie Boyd, VA 
 
Yvonne Wheeler, AFGE 
 
 
 
Recording Secretaries:  Mike Eicher and Terri Avondet 
 
 
[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

C O N T E N T S 

                                                       Page 
 
I.    Opening/Announcements 
      • Introductions.....................................4 
      • Announcements.....................................6 

- FPRAC's FY 2012 Federal Advisory Committee Act 
  (FACA) Report, 581-OC-1 
- 2012 Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey Results: 
  Report by Demographics Question 70-Pay 
  Satisfaction Reponses, 581-OC-2 

  

II.   Review of the Minutes of 580th Meeting..............7 
 
III.  Old Business........................................8 
      a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2 
         - Total Employment in the Eastern Tennessee 
           Wages Area by County, 566-OPM-1 
         - List of FWS Wage Areas with Fewer than 500 
           Employees, 566-OPM-2 
         - Review of Criteria for Defining Appropriated 
           Fund Wage Areas, 545-OC-1 [REPRINT] 
      b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns 
         - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on  
           Survey Issues Work Group, 560-OC-1 
      c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal 
         Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1 
      d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 
         Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2 
      e. Letter from the American Federation of Government 
         Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC 
         review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA 
         from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to 
         the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1 
      f. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC 
         Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1 
      g. Proposal for FPRAC review of the Federal Wage 
         System Appropriated Fund and Non-Appropriated 
         Fund Operating Manuals, 575-AFGE-1 
      h. Suggestion for a research paper on the history 
         of the Federal Government's prevailing rate 
         system 
      i. Review of the Augusta and Portland, ME Federal 
         Wage System Wage Areas, 578-MGT-1 
 
 
 

 

3 

      C O N T E N T S (continued) 

 
                                                       Page 
 
      j. Alternate Analysis of the Portland, ME Federal 
         Wage Area, 580-MGT-1 
      k. Definition of Vanderburgh County, Indiana, to a  
         Non-Appropriated Fund Federal Wage System Wage 
         Area, 580-MGT-2 
 

 

 

P R O C E E D I N G 

4 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone, and 

As we usually do, why don't we go around and introduce 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  And we know some more folks 

MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 
MR. RUMBLE:  Steven Rumble, Department of Defense. 
MR. WILLIAMS:  Lamar Williams, Department of the Navy. 
MS. FISHER:  Sian Fisher, Department of Veterans 

 
welcome to this, our 581st, meeting of the Federal Prevailing 
Rate Advisory Committee.  My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chair of 
the Committee. 
 
ourselves?  Start with you today, Mark. 
 
 
 
 
Affairs. 
 
Force. 
 
Technicians. 
 
Government Employees. 
 
are on their way, stuck in traffic but will be here shortly. 
 
 

Why don't we also go around the room? 
MR. ROVAN: Hank Rovan, DoD. 

MS. SUSZCZYK:  Sarah Suszczyk, National Association of 

MS. FREEMAN:  Darlene Freeman, Department of Air 

MR. LANDIS:  Steven Landis, Association of Civilian 

 

5 

MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, DoD. 
MR. FENDT:  Karl Fendt, DoD. 
MS. ARROYO:  Melissa Arroyo, Navy. 
MS. BOYD:  Stephanie Boyd, Department of Veterans 

 
 
 
 
Affairs. 
 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 
 
MS. AVONDET:  Terri Avondet, OPM. 
 
MR. EICHER:  Mike Eicher, OPM. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So why don't we take a minute and 
review the meeting dates for next year?  I trust everybody has 
already checked their calendar and let us know if you have a 
problem with any of these dates, but if you haven’t checked, 
please do so now. 
 
 
attendance.  That's terrific. 
[Laughter.] 
 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Except for the people who are not 
here right now.  They'll be here in a minute, though, I think. 
 
housekeeping matter, as a Federal advisory committee, FPRAC has 
to file -- or I guess OPM on our behalf has to file a report 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  All right.  We'll have really good 

A couple of announcements.  Just kind of a 

 

6 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Correct, yes. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah.  So I’ve given you a copy, 

with the General Services Administration about our committee.  I 
think this is an annual requirement, Madeline; is that correct? 
 
 
it's totally fascinating reading. 
 
And then a little bit more interesting, I think, is 
the second handout, 581-OC-2, which is the response from the 
latest employee viewpoint survey about satisfaction with pay, 
and there is actually a breakout in there of FWS.  I don't know 
whether that includes the nonappropriated fund folks.  Does 
anybody know whether they are surveyed?  Could we perhaps find 
out? 
 
survey if they include the nonappropriated fund employees in the 
scope of the survey.  I believe it's around 740,000 employees 
who were included, total, in the survey this year. 
 
this year and much higher response and actually pretty 
substantial group of FWS folks, as you'll see more than 40,000 
responses. 
 
230,000 total Federal Wage System employees. 

MR. ALLEN:  We can ask the people who administer the 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah.  It's a much bigger sample 

MR. ALLEN:  Well, that would be 40,000 out of around 

 

7 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If there's no objection -- going 

Any questions about this? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, can we review the minutes 

 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right.  Well, if in fact the 
nonappropriated fund employees are part of the group that's 
surveyed, which I guess we're not quite sure of.  Please let me 
know if you find out about that, Mark. 
 
 
 
of our previous meeting?  Are there changes beyond those that 
people have already notified us about?  Any corrections? 
 
 
once, going twice, going three times? 
 
 
transcript from our last meeting is adopted. 
 
little bit caught in a bind.  On the one hand, some folks have 
to leave early, I know.  Others are in traffic, and should be 
here momentarily.  We are waiting for our new member from AFGE, 
Eugene Hudson.  He's taking J. David Cox's seat at our table but 
apparently there is some pretty bad traffic this morning and he 
is on his way. 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing no objection, the 

And that brings up old business.  I guess we're a 

 

8 

Jacque waited for him in their office, and so they're 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  We have been looking for the meeting. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Oh, okay.  You found us.  Good. 
Why don't the new arrivals introduce themselves?  Go 

 
going to be here momentarily. 
 
We could dive into old business, but I think what I'd 
rather do is just wait for a few more minutes, since they should 
be here momentarily. Maybe we can start our party while we wait. 
 
 
 
ahead, Jerry. 
 
Federal Officer for this meeting. 
 
Force, legislative fellow assigned to OPM. 
 
Communications at OPM. 
 
objection, we'll take a short break and have some refreshments, 
pending our AFGE folks' arrival.  They are on their way but 
stuck in traffic. 
 
 
have arrived. –  

[Recess.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Welcome again.  Some new folks 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So unless there's some violent 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  I am Jerry Mikowicz, OPM Designated 

MR. SOMERS:  Nate Somers, Major, United States Air 

ATTENDEE:  I'm Jennifer; I work in the Office of 

 

9 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Welcome. 
MS. SIMON:  Jacque Simon, AFGE. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Someone else came and joined us. 
MS. WHEELER:  Yvonne Wheeler, AFGE. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you. 
We have gotten through the adoption of our transcript 

 
Welcome, Mr. Hudson.  I'm Sheldon Friedman, Chairman 
of FPRAC.  The FPRAC meetings are recorded.  For the benefit of 
the recorder, please introduce yourselves.   MR. HUDSON:  My 
name is Eugene Hudson, Jr.  I am the National 
Secretary/Treasurer for the American Federation of Government 
Employees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from the last meeting, and that brings up old business. 
 
actually be able to deal with today, now that we have a quorum. 
 
working group, but if anybody wants to bring them up, you have 
one quick minute to do it. 
 
 
(j), and (k).  Items (i) and (j) are really the same issue.  
This relates to what to do with the Portland, Maine, FWS wage 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Then why don't we move on to (i), 

Towards the end, we have three items that we might 

The previous items (a) through (h) are all in our 

 

10 

Do people need a refresher on this issue?  Shall we 

area, which is no longer going to have an activity capable of 
conducting a survey and has fallen very low in FWS employment.  
We have two alternate approaches for what to do with the 
counties in that wage area. 
 
ask Mark to walk us through the alternatives that have been 
prepared? 
 
MS. SIMON:  I think that would be useful. 
 
I mean, I've reviewed both the initial analysis that 
proposed moving the whole thing to Portland as well as the -- 
 
 
-- as well as the alternative analysis that would split the 
various counties of the Portland wage area, but I think it would 
be useful to have a review. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Mark, the floor is yours. 
 
MR. ALLEN:  In 578-MGT-1, which was introduced to the 
 
Committee back in September, the Management members had taken a 
look at the Portland, Maine, wage area. 
 
employment levels have decreased to such a degree in the 
Portland Wage Area that it's no longer feasible to maintain 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  You mean Augusta. 
MS. SIMON:  Or moving Portland to Augusta -- excuse me 

As the Chairman has stated, the Federal Wage System 

 

11 

In 578-MGT-1, the Management members took a look at 

Portland as a separate wage area.  There's no host activity 
capable of supporting local wage surveys, as there had been in 
the past. 
 
Portland and recommended that the Portland wage area be 
abolished and its counties be redefined to the Augusta wage 
area. 
 
Based on a previous FPRAC recommendation that the 
Portsmouth, NH, wage area be abolished and its counties be 
redefined to the Boston wage area, the Management members took a 
look at the Portland wage area only as it would compare with the 
Augusta wage area. 
 
analysis as if the Portsmouth, NH, wage area continued as a 
separate wage area, and that was introduced as 580-MGT-1. 
 
In this analysis, we took a look at individual 
counties within the current Portland wage area, and based on an 
analysis of the regulatory criteria, including distance and 
commuting patterns and metropolitan statistical area 
definitions, the Management members would recommend that 
Cumberland and Sagadahoc Counties, Maine, be redefined to the 
Portsmouth wage area, and that Androscoggin, Franklin, and 

The Labor members requested that we do an alternate 

 

12 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Can I just ask a clarifying 

MR. ALLEN:  I believe we are in favor of 580-MGT-1. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Oh, you're in favor now of the 

Oxford Counties, Maine, and Coos County, New Hampshire, be 
defined to the Augusta, Maine, wage area. 
 
question before we go to discussion?  Are the Management folks 
at this point equally amenable to either approach, or are they 
-- 
 
 
second. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
we may be able to do something today. 
 
 
caucus?  Do you want to vote? 
 
minute. 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Oh. 
MS. SIMON:  Wait.  You are in favor of 580-MGT-1? 
MR. ALLEN:  The alternate analysis. 
MS. SIMON:  You are? 
MR. ALLEN:  Yeah. 
MS. SIMON:  Oh.  Well, then we may have -- you know, 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there any discussion? 
MS. SIMON:  Do you want to discuss?  Do you want to 

MR. LANDIS:  I guess we can talk about it for just a 

 

13 

MS. SIMON:  I'm sure we can.  Do we have a place we 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  I mean, the one sticking point, the 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Madeline?  Is there a caucus room? 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Jerry’s office. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Somebody show folks the way. 
[Caucus held by Labor members off the record.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Welcome back from your 

 
can go to caucus? 
 
 
 
 
 
caucus, Labor members.  Is there any discussion of this issue? 
 
one problematic county is Coos County.  That, you know, it's 
less than 30 miles difference on the distance criterion.  As far 
as everything else, you know, distribution of private sector 
employment favors Portsmouth.  It has 12 employees, and, you 
know, we would move to amend 580-MGT-1 to place Coos County, New 
Hampshire, in the Portsmouth wage area.  If we could agree on 
that, then I think we could move forward. 
 
 
page 2 of Attachment 2. 
 
MS. SIMON:  Which document are you on, Mark? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  This is 580-MGT-1, Attachment 2.  This is 
where you listed distance, was showing distances 90 miles from 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any discussion of that? 
MR. ALLEN:  We are showing for Coos County to be on 

 

14 

Other things that we would look at would be commuting 

Coos County to Augusta and 96 miles to the host activity, which 
is the VA Medical Center, Togus, and 117 miles to Portsmouth and 
119 miles to the host activity, which is the Portsmouth Naval 
Shipyard. 
 
patterns, and in this case, there's not much of a linkage 
between Coos County and either survey area.  The overall 
examination of the similarities in overall population, 
employment, and the kinds and sizes of private industrial 
establishments criterion for Coos County does not favor one wage 
area more than another. 
 
and in this case, although it's not strongly favoring either, I 
think we do have to stick with the idea that the county should 
be defined to which survey area is closest under the regulatory 
criterion. 
 
you've got -- we've got our methods for measuring distance that 
are -- you know, sometimes are very close calls.  This is a 
really close call. 
 
these other counties in Maine for a very long period of time, 

Coos County has been part of the same wage area as all 

The only thing we really have to go on is distance, 

MS. SIMON:  Well, I think that there -- you know, 

 

15 

and, you know, this proposal sort of singles them out as the one 
county going to Augusta, rather than going to Portsmouth, along 
with the other Maine counties.  The small difference in distance 
doesn't seem to warrant such a big change, and so like I said, 
we would move to amend 580-MGT-1 to move Coos County into 
Portsmouth, along with all the other recommendations. 
MR. ALLEN:  That would present us with a problem when 
 
we would try to write a regulation to implement something like 
that if we say that we are ignoring the distance criterion.  We 
need a definitive reason why. 
 
MS. GONZALEZ:  May I say something?  Coos County is 
not the only county being redefined to the Augusta wage area. 
 
 
 
 
 
without moving Oxford County too. 
 
 
 
Coos County, is that measuring from an activity or from a city? 

MS. SIMON:  No, I know. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  And if you look at the map -- 
MS. SIMON:  The map on -- 
MR. LANDIS:  The map is difficult to read. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  It's not possible to move Coos County 

MS. SIMON:  I can't see the map. 
MR. ALLEN:  There's a better map in 578-MGT-1. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I have a question on the distance.   

 

16 

MR. ALLEN:  Our practice is to measure from an 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  I mean, just looking at this map, 

MR. ALLEN:  From the largest FWS employer in the 

 
activity, if there is an activity in a county, to the survey 
area and to the host installation. 
 
Coos County looks a whole lot closer to Portsmouth than Augusta, 
obviously closer to Portland, but -- 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So was the distance measured from 
 
the largest FWS employer in the county or from the largest city 
if no FWS employees?  
 
county.  There is a Federal prison in Coos County. 
 
of Berlin, where FWS employees are working. 
 
in the far reaches of Coos County? 
 
county. 
 
What Madeline is pointing out is that to define Coos 
County to the Portsmouth wage area would result in having the 
Portsmouth wage area being split apart.  Oxford County would be 
in between it and Coos County. 
 

MS. GONZALEZ:  We are measuring from Berlin, the Town 

MS. SIMON:  And they're at a prison, and is that like 

MR. ALLEN:  I'm not sure where exactly it is in the 

MS. SIMON:  Okay.  Well, we can certainly amend our 

 

17 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  What about the other regulatory 

MS. SIMON:  I think they don't -- they don't point one 

MR. ALLEN:  On page 4 of 580-MGT-1, commuting patterns 

MR. ALLEN:  I think that would further compound the 

proposal to include Oxford County in Portsmouth, as well. 
 
problem.  Oxford County is 49 miles from Augusta, Maine, and 96 
miles to Portsmouth, New Hampshire. 
 
criteria?  Do they point the same way or do they point in a 
different way? 
 
way or another. 
 
and similarities in overall population, total private sector 
employment, and the kinds and sizes of private industrial 
establishments indicate that a couple of the counties are closer 
in those regards to Augusta than to the Portsmouth wage area. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any further discussion of this? 
 
MS. SIMON:  Well, you do have -- on page 7, you've got 
the distribution of private sector employment analysis favoring 
the Portsmouth wage area; in other words, they're more part of 
the labor market of Portsmouth.  They're more similar in labor 
market. 
 
 

MR. ALLEN:  Where is this? 
MS. SIMON:  I'm on page 7 of 580-MGT-1. 

 

18 

MR. ALLEN:  I'm not seeing in one of these analyses 

MR. BRADY:  I don't know that there is a witching 

MS. SIMON:  Well, want me to show you where? 
MR. ALLEN:  Only one portion of the overall analysis 

 
where we say that Coos County is more similar to the Portsmouth 
wage area than the Augusta wage area. 
 
 
for this criterion -- the distribution of private sector 
employment analysis favors the Portsmouth wage area.  Overall, 
when you look at the overall population and employment, and the 
kinds and sizes of private industrial establishments, it doesn't 
indicate that it favored one wage area more than the other. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  One clarifying question.  What's 
our witching hour to make a final decision on this one?  Jim, 
can you enlighten us? 
 
hour, per se.  There's not much capability in the wage area, but 
the staff has conducted surveys before, so if need be, we can 
certainly do that again -- 
MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
 
 
MR. BRADY:  -- and keep it as a wage area till it can 
be decided. 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
MR. BRADY:  Mark, do you know?  It would have to be 

 

19 

The chances of that happening at this point, it's 

MS. SIMON:  Okay.  I guess we're not ready to vote 

MR. ALLEN:  At this point, OPM would need to issue an 

published in the Federal Register.  That's why I'm not familiar 
totally, exactly how much time you would have. 
 
interim final regulation after we receive an FPRAC 
recommendation.  The Director would need to decide on whether to 
adopt the FPRAC recommendation or not, and then to proceed with 
issuing a regulation. 
 
possible.  It's difficult administratively to do that, but it is 
possible to do it.  If we wait until January, it's not possible 
to do it then. 
 
then. 
 
 
 
ready to adopt the proposal.  So we just postpone this? 
 
 
this one resolved.  I hope a lot of things.  Peace on earth. 
 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Pardon me? 
MS. SIMON:  We are not ready to vote. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Not ready to vote?  So you're not 

MS. SIMON:  I guess. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  I was hoping we could get 

[Laughter.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, let's see if we can deal 

 

20 

MR. HUDSON:  Sure. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Mark, refresh us, please. 
MR. ALLEN:  Okay.  This is a very brief one.  

with that other old business item (k), definition of Vanderburgh 
County, Indiana, to a nonappropriated fund Federal Wage System 
wage area, 580-MGT-2.  Do we need a refresher on that issue?  
Are we ready to discuss it?  Refresher good or -- 
 
 
 
Vanderburgh County, Indiana, is not currently defined to a 
nonappropriated fund wage area.  There are now two 
nonappropriated fund employees under the Federal Wage System 
working at the outpatient clinic for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs in Evansville. 
 
regulatory criteria, and based on distance to the nearest survey 
area, the Management members have recommended that Vanderburgh 
County be defined as an area of application to the Christian, 
Kentucky/Montgomery, Tennessee, nonappropriated fund wage area.  
If you look all the way to the back at Attachment 3, we have a 
chart that compares road distances from the VA Evansville 
Outpatient Clinic in Vanderburgh County to host activities in 
neighboring wage areas.  It's 100 miles to the host activity in 
the Christian/Montgomery wage area, and 149 miles to the next 

The Management members have taken a look at the 

 

21 

MR. ALLEN:  I believe you are looking at Attachment 1, 

closest host activity, which is in the St. Clair wage area.  The 
other criteria that we look at, such as commuting patterns and 
transportation facilities, don’t indicate a linkage favoring one 
wage area more than the other. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  A clarification question before 
 
you move to discussion.  In this same document, closer to the 
front, there's quite different distance numbers, and I was kind 
of curious, so I kind of googled it myself.  And it looked more 
like the ones you had earlier to me, so why on page 2-2, do you 
have different distance numbers? 
 
which was a Department of Defense analysis, and somebody can 
correct me if I'm wrong.  But the distance measurements, it says 
in the chart on 2-2, that the distances are based on the 
Department of Defense's Table of Official Distances, by road, 
between the installations or cities where FWS employees are 
stationed, and OPM staff have a practice of presenting studies 
to FPRAC that have distance based on Google.  We use Google Maps 
to cover distances between locations, basically so anybody can 
go and double-check and see what Google is saying. 
 
I mean, if you look at the distance between the major cities, 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  No, I mean, I looked into it also.  

 

22 

So we've got negligible distance differences and 

Evansville/Louisville, Evansville/Clarksville, it's more like a 
10-mile difference.  And, you know, just because of the 
differences in highways in those two areas, it's actually either 
identical driving times or slightly favoring Louisville for 
driving times, because there's major highways connecting 
Evansville and Louisville and not so with Clarksville. 
 
certainly possibly commuting patterns and a driving distance 
that favors Louisville, but I think the other thing that's 
really rather telling and more important, if you look at the 
criteria for the combination for NAF areas, you know, very 
strong similarities between Evansville and Louisville 
economically, certainly in terms of their labor markets, mean 
and hourly wages in Evansville, 15.69 an hour, and -- wait.  
Evansville is 15.16 an hour.  Louisville is 15.69 an hour, and 
then Clarksville is 13.90 an hour.  Median family income in 
Evansville, 62.9.  Louisville is virtually identical, and then 
Clarksville is 53,500.  Economically, in terms of the labor 
market in particular, Evansville and Louisville are practically 
twins, and Clarksville is substantially different.  And distance 
is either negligible or favors Louisville in terms of driving 
times and commuting. 

 

23 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any further discussion? 
MS. SIMON:  Hardin/Jefferson rather than 

MR. ALLEN:  I'm actually somewhat familiar with 

MS. SIMON:  Well -- 
MR. ALLEN:  Louisville is -- they're both river 

 
So I think that -- I think there's a strong case to be 
made that the county belongs in the Louisville area rather than 
the Clarksville area. 
 
 
Christian/Montgomery. 
 
Evansville and Louisville.  I can't really say that, at least in 
my mind, that Evansville is similar to Louisville. 
 
 
cities, but Louisville is considerably bigger than Evansville. 
 
MS. SIMON:  I'm talking about economic data, not, you 
know -- not anything else. 
 
from the regulatory criteria -- 
 
the regulatory criteria.  You know, one of the items in the 
regulatory criteria is similarities in the counties in terms of 
overall population, private employment, you know, kinds and 
sizes of private industrial establishments, transportation 
facilities, commuting patterns.  The commuting pattern is 

MS. SIMON:  I wasn't looking at them in isolation from 

MR. ALLEN:  To look at the economic data in isolation 

 

24 

You know, its proximity.  It doesn't say absolutely we 

relevant. 
 
must be dictated by the number of miles on, you know, Google.  
It says proximity of largest activity, and, you know, we have 
used economic data, economic similarities between these counties 
as an important criterion.  And here we have practically 
identical economic statistics between Louisville and Evansville 
and substantially different economic statistics in the 
Clarksville area, to have median family household income and 
average hourly earnings be that much different is a very strong 
indication of a very different labor market, a very, very 
different local economy.  And then you've got identical 
standards in Louisville and Evansville. 
 
belongs with Louisville. 
 
saying that the distance between activities might point to 
Christian/Montgomery, but the other regulatory criteria point 
the other way. 
 
MS. SIMON:  Well, I'm not even saying that I would 
concede the first part.  I don't think that the distance is a 
clear-cut indicator one way or another, given the road system 

So I just think it's a clear-cut case that this county 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So I think I hear the Labor side 

 

25 

MS. SIMON:  Proximity of largest activities in each 

MR. BRADY:  Does it state that there is an order in 

MR. BRADY:  What does the regulatory criteria actually 

and, proximity of the major cities. 
 
state?  Does it state that there's an order? 
 
county. 
 
consideration? 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  It states that, generally, they're 
considered in order, but I think it leaves -- Mark or anyone who 
actually knows the answer to this can correct me, but I think it 
leaves rather vague what happens if the criteria point in 
different directions. 
 
"generally," which is a qualifier. 
 
absolutely. 
 
need FPRAC for that? 
 
regulatory criteria, since we are dealing with a local 
prevailing rate system, has distance listed as the first 
criterion that's reviewed, and they are generally reviewed in 

MR. ALLEN:  There is some room for discretion, but the 

MS. SIMON:  It says -- I mean, it's got the word 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  "Generally," but that's not 

I mean, if it was automatic procedure, why would we 

 

26 

MR. ALLEN:  What economic statistics are you pointing 

MS. SIMON:  Median hourly wages and median household 

MS. SIMON:  Well, I think you just hit the nail on the 

the order listed. 
 
head, Mark.  Prevailing rates are what matters, and prevailing 
rates in Louisville are essentially identical to Evansville, and 
prevailing rates are much lower in Clarksville. 
 
to? 
 
income from Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
 
introduced to the Committee -- 
 
 
look at -- 
 
 
those. 
 
 
that might put everybody in a better position to -- 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  Happy to do it. 
MR. ALLEN:  Then if we take a look at those, I think 

MS. SIMON:  Sounds like a plan. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Should we then defer this until 

MR. ALLEN:  Okay.  I would suggest that those be 

MS. SIMON:  Sure. 
MR. ALLEN:  -- formally, so that we can all take a 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
MR. ALLEN:  -- what they say and do an analysis of 

 

27 

MS. SIMON:  We made progress.  I think we made 

MR. ALLEN:  Sometimes it's slow. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah. 
MR. ALLEN:  We get there eventually. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, is there any other 

the Labor folks present -- 
 
MS. SIMON:  Sure. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- their data on this issue? 
 
 
MS. SIMON:  Sure. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  We didn't get this one 
 
done, either.  Oh, well. 
 
progress. 
 
 
 
 
item of business that needs to come before us today? 
[No audible response.] 
 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I hope people can stay for the 
holiday party.  I want to wish everybody a very Happy Hanukah 
and Merry Christmas, Happy New Year.  Did I forget anybody? 
 
celebrate this month. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah. 
 
MS. SIMON:  Our former colleague, J. David Cox, is 
about to become a grandfather this morning, so there's that, 

MS. SIMON:  Oh, we have all kinds of things to 

 

28 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So if there's no other business, 

MR. ALLEN:  The January meeting, I believe. 
MR. RUMBLE:  I believe we will have a presentation in 

MS. SIMON:  January? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yes.  For that, it really would be 

too. 
 
we do have a work group meeting for those who can stay.   
 
MS. SIMON:  Oh, just for the record, Steve -- I think 
I heard, but I just want to clarify, we're going to postpone our 
briefing on locks and dams until -- 
 
 
January. 
 
 
helpful if people can prepare, and I've asked Madeline to 
recirculate her analysis that was done quite some time ago, and 
there will be somebody who can answer questions-- will they be 
making a presentation, Steve, or just answering questions?  A 
presentation would be delightful.  Do you -- 
 
presentation. 
 
 
but I don't know the current status. 
 

MR. RUMBLE:  Yes, I believe we will be making a 

MS. SIMON:  Do you know what we're talking about? 
MR. RUMBLE:  I understand what you're talking about, 

MS. SIMON:  That we've been talking about, okay. 

 

29 

MR. RUMBLE:  Yes, because I've been a participant in 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  The agenda for today's working 

So does anyone know where the working group meeting 

 
the past, but I haven't been updated recently. 
 
 
group meeting is the OPM FWS appropriated fund, and 
nonappropriated fund operating manuals. 
 
will be? 
 
 
 
Going once?  Going twice? 
 
 
everyone in the New Year. 

MS. SIMON:  Move to adjourn. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay, thank you.  We will see 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Right here. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right here. 
And unless there is some objection, we could adjourn.  

