 

1 

570th FPRAC 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management 

Washington, D.C. 

Thursday, January 19, 2012 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
  Management Members 
  MARK ALLEN, Office of Personnel Management 
  STEVEN RUMBLE, Department of Defense 
  TAMMY VANKEUREN, Department of Air Force 
  ANN MARIE HANNON, Department of Veterans Affairs 
  CARLOS SAAVEDRA, Department of Navy 
 
  Labor Members 
  DENNIS PHELPS, MTD 
  STEVEN FISHER, ACT 
  JACQUELINE SIMON, AFGE 
  J. DAVID COX, AFGE 
  SARAH SUSZCZYK, NAGE 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors: 
  JEROME MIKOWICZ, Designated Federal Officer, 
    Office of Personnel Management 
  MADELINE GONZALEZ, Office of Personnel Management 
  TERRI AVONDET, Office of Personnel Management 
  BRITTNEY MANCHESTER, Office of Personnel Management 
  LINDSEY O'KEEFE, Office of Personnel Management 
  CHRIS WALLACE, Office of Personnel Management 
  H.L. ROVAN, Department of Defense 
  JIM BRADY, Department of Defense 
  KARL FENDT, Department of Defense 
  CRAIG JERABEK, Department of Defense 
  JIM DAVEY, Department of Defense 
  DARLENE FREEMAN, Department of Air Force 
  BARBARA WALKER, Department of Army 
  COLIN BENNETT, Department of Commerce 
   
Recording Secretary:  FEBBIE GRAY 
 
 [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.] 

 

2 

C O N T E N T S 

 
 
                                                        Page 
 
I.    Opening/Announcements 
      • Introductions......................................3 
      • Announcements......................................4 
 
II.   Review of the Minutes of 569th Meeting...............5 
 
III.  Old Business 
      a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2 
         - Total Employment in the Eastern Tennessee 
           Wages Area by County, 566-OPM-1 
         - List of FWS Wage Areas with Fewer than 500 
           Employees, 566-OPM-2 
         - Review of Criteria for Defining Appropriated 
           Fund Wage Areas, 545-OC-1 [REPRINT] 
      b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns 
         - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on  
           Survey Issues Work Group, 561-OC-1 
      c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal 
         Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1 
      d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 
         Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2 
      f. Letter from the American Federation of Government 
         Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC 
         review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA 
         from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to 
         the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1 
 
IV.   New Business 
      a. Alaska Set-Aside Area Differential Schedules, 
         570-MGT-1.........................................5 
      b. Report of the Wage Area Definition Study Group, 
         570-MGT/LBR-1.....................................7 
 
 

•-•-• 

 

3 

P R O C E E D I N G S 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone, and welcome 

As usual, why don't we make our introductions?  I'm 

MR. COX:  J. David Cox with the American Federation of 

Let's go this way this time. 
MR. PHELPS:  Dennis Phelps for the Metal Trades 

 
 
to this, our 570th meeting of FPRAC, the first one of 2012, so 
Happy New Year to everybody. 
 
Sheldon Friedman, Chairman of FPRAC. 
 
 
Department. 
 
Government Employees. 
 
 
Government Employees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Affairs. 

MR. FISHER:  Steve Fisher, ACT. 
MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 
MR. RUMBLE:  Steve Rumble, Department of Defense. 
MS. VANKEUREN:  Tammy Vankeuren, Air Force. 
MR. SAAVEDRA:  Carlos Saavedra, Department of the Navy. 
MS. HANNON:  Ann Marie Hannon, Department of Veterans 

MS. SIMON:  Jacque Simon, AFGE. 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Sarah Suszczyk, National Association of 

 

4 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  Jerry Mikowicz, OPM, the Designated 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And let's also go around the sides 

 
Federal Officer. 
 
of the room. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
any.  Anybody got any announcements? 

[Introductions were made off mic.] 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 
MS. AVONDET:  Terri Avondet, OPM. 
MS. FREEMAN:  Darlene Freeman, Air Force. 
MS. WALKER:  Barbara Walker, Army. 
ATTENDEE:   Colin Bennett, U.S. Department of Commerce. 
MR. FENDT:  Karl Fendt, DOD. 
MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, DOD. 
MR. JERABEK:  Craig Jerabek, DOD. 
MR. DAVEY:  Jim Davey, DOD. 
MR. ROVAN:  Hank Rovan, DOD. 
MS. O'KEEFE:  Lindsey O'Keefe, OPM. 
MS. MANCHESTER:  Brittney Manchester, OPM. 
MS. GRAY:  Febbie Gray, OPM. 
MR. WALLACE:  Chris Wallace, OPM. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Announcements.  I don't have 

 

5 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, is there agreement to 

[No audible response.] 
 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  With that, let's move on to review 
of the transcript from our last meeting.  Are there any changes 
beyond those which we have already heard from you about? 
 
 
accept those minutes? 
 
[No audible response.] 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So they have been accepted. 
 
I would suggest we defer our Old Business items, 
because I think we have a fairly full plate of new business 
today, and I don't think there is anything new at the moment on 
the Old Business, if that's okay. 
 
So let's turn to the Alaska Set-Aside Area Differential 
Schedules, 570-MGT-1.  Mark, would you please summarize that for 
us? 
 
brief summary. 
 
The Department of Commerce has requested that OPM 
approve an extension of the authority to use the 12-percent 
Remote Area Differential Set-Aside Wage Schedule for a limited 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes, Mr. Chairman.  I will give a very 

 

6 

number of employees who would be employed on St. Paul Island.  It 
is part of Alaska, but it is out in a very remote area.  It's in 
the Bering Sea. 
The Department of Commerce currently has an employee 
 
there who is on a temporary appointment.  They had an extreme 
amount of difficulty recruiting that person.  What they would 
like to do is in-source maintenance work at their facilities on 
the island and possibly hire additional employees. 
 
In order to do that, though, they believe they need to 
have the authority to use the 12-percent differential schedule, 
which was originally established for application in remote areas 
of Alaska where agencies were having difficulty recruiting and 
retaining employees.  I think this situation definitely does call 
for extension of the existing wage schedule to cover the 
employees of the Department of Commerce in that location. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any questions or discussion? 
 
 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there consensus to adopt this 
 
proposal? 
 
 

MR. COX:  Absolutely. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  We have adopted 570-MGT-1. 

 

7 

That brings up another small item, the report of the 

 
Wage Area Definition Study Group, 570-MGT/LBR-1.  Everyone 
remembers the background of this one.  We have been asked by 
Director Berry to do a more in-depth study of the implications of 
the October 21, 2010, recommendation of FPRAC to him regarding 
combining wage areas or portions of wage areas that lie within 
General Schedule locality pay areas. 
And while the study group was not able to complete its 
 
report totally by the target date of year-end, obviously a great 
deal has been accomplished in terms of that report.  You have it 
all before you. 
 
I would like to thank Madeline, here at OPM, for the 
incredible work she has put in and also Craig and Jim and their 
folks at DoD for all the work they have done on it. 
 
for the quiz?  Have you reviewed it all? 
 
 
figure out how we want to proceed. 
One possibility I am just throwing out there would be 
 
to go ahead and pass this on to Director Berry with a cover memo 

[Laughter.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I think we just need to dig in and 

I assume everyone has gotten their copy.  Are you ready 

 

8 

There is certainly the question of whether we want to 

I am seeing on the Management side that they don't like 

indicating that while it is not complete, we wanted him to have 
it, and meanwhile the study group is continuing its analysis.  
That is one option.  I don't know if there is consensus to 
proceed that way or not. 
 
that approach. 
 
formally ask the study group to continue its work full speed 
ahead, and I don't know whether there is consensus about that or 
not.  There are questions about whether there is anything in the 
report so far that causes anybody to change their view of the 
underlying issue. 
 
want to proceed, because I am just really giving some thoughts to 
prime the pump here. 
 
the report on to the Director as-is. 
 
side shaking no to that proposition. 
 
participants in this study group.  I first saw this yesterday.  

MR. COX:  Mr. Chairman, I would move that we forward 

Maybe I should just throw it open to see how people 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  I saw heads on the other 

MR. RUMBLE:  Mr. Chairman, most of us were not 

 

9 

We've looked through it, but I noted that we have 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any comment from this side on that? 
MR. COX:  Mr. Chairman, the work group has been working 

There's a lot of information in here, some of which I am familiar 
with, but I don't know if we have comments until we have had an 
opportunity to review the material, and that has not happened in 
the last day and a half. 
 
corrections that were submitted by Labor members.  We may have 
something comparable that we would like to suggest to be 
submitted.  At this point, there's no way of knowing. 
 
 
for quite a while -- months, if not a year or more -- on this 
issue, and I think every entity around the table has certainly 
had the players involved in the working group and dealing with it 
on the working group.  Every union has had participation.  Every 
one of the agencies, OPM -- everyone has been there.  There's 
certainly been that opportunity for all of the input to be placed 
in it. 
 
large of a document without constant input from folks along the 
way and people understanding what was being derived. 
 

I can't comprehend that we would have amassed this 

MR. ALLEN:  The working group is actually a subset of 

 

10 

FPRAC.  It was set up at the July 2011 FPRAC meeting.  The member 
from the Department of the Army is the only other member, besides 
myself, who has participated in the working group meetings.  That 
was a decision that was made by the Committee to limit the number 
of people involved to speed the process along a little bit in the 
working group meetings. 
 
So Steve is correct in that this really is the first 
look that his office has had and likewise for Air Force, Navy, 
and VA. 
 
MS. SIMON:  There have always been at least three 
people from the Department of Defense at every meeting I've 
attended, and I believe I have attended all the meetings. 
 
group meetings do not represent DOD policy staff.  They work in 
the technical office for the Wage Setting Division at DOD. 
 
to clarify that DOD had representation throughout.  They had 
extremely active participation at every meeting, and they were -- 
you know, we had equal members.  And, you know, Management chose 
to send who they chose to send, but, certainly, DOD was extremely 
well represented at every meeting.  And DoD employees have been 

MS. SIMON:  I understand that, Mark.  I just was trying 

MR. ALLEN:  The DOD people who were at the working 

 

11 

So, you know, the fact that what they were doing and 

And given that there's already been a delay, it was 

providing data that was used in the study, and DoD employees have 
been involved in every little detail that has gone into this 
study. 
 
what was going on, the final product hasn't been examined yet by, 
you know, some of the people sitting around this table, isn't a 
reflection of the fact that DOD didn't have its opportunity for 
input on an ongoing basis. 
 
supposed to be transmitted to the Director before the end of the 
calendar year, you know, we're in the third week of January.  I 
don't know how much time people want who haven't looked at it yet 
to get around to looking at it, but we're already delayed, and I 
think that one of the reasons we wanted to go forward and submit 
it to FPRAC members was, you know, this was a request -- I'm not 
sure.  This was a request by the Director to have a study 
produced that would answer questions about who is affected, what 
would this look like, what would the maps look like, how much 
would it cost, et cetera, et cetera.  Certainly, there's enough 
information gathered so far to answer those questions. 
 

You know, almost every possible affected area has been 

 

12 

So one possibility would be to transmit the report to 

So it's ready, and we want to keep the process moving. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Let me make a suggestion that may 

fully elaborated.  There are a few that remain, but all the big 
questions have been answered, and there's enough information here 
to make very, very good estimates about, you know, the impact on 
the -- on the remaining areas where every -- every detail hasn't 
yet been fully elaborated. 
 
 
not resolve this, but I'm going to make it anyway. 
 
the Director with a cover memo that indicates that even though it 
is, A, incomplete and, B, not all members of FPRAC have yet had a 
chance to study it in detail and may have further comments on it, 
given the timeline that he asked us for, we at least wanted him 
to have this now, that we are continuing to work on it, and there 
may be additional comments from members of FPRAC. 
 
here a little bit. 
 
establish the working group. This document is included in 
everybody's binder. 
 

MR. ALLEN:  Mr. Chairman, I need to correct the record 

565-OC-2, is a document that we all agreed to, to 

We said in this document that the working group 

 

13 

projects it will provide FPRAC with a report on its analysis of 
the seven locality pay areas affected by the end of calendar year 
2011.  I think the working group has met its obligation in that 
respect of reporting to FPRAC. 
 
There was a statement just made that the Director had 
expected to receive a report by the end of calendar year 2011.  
That is really not the case. 
 
report to FPRAC by the end of calendar year 2011.  I think we met 
that obligation. 
 
deserves to be fully considered by the Committee before another 
incomplete recommendation goes forward to the Director that 
doesn't meet the requirements that he asked for. 
 
David? 
 
 
Any further discussion? 
 
 

MR. COX:  Yes, I did, sir.  I made a motion. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, we will keep discussing it.  

Would you mind restating it? 
MR. COX:  I would move that we send the report forward 

The working group projected that it would provide a 

Now it's in the FPRAC venue, and I think it really 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Did you make a formal motion, J. 

 

14 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Certainly.  I believe we have the 

[Management and Labor caucuses held off the record.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We are back in session after 

I believe the latest state of play is the Management 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any further discussion? 
MR. ALLEN:  Management members would like to caucus, 

as it is to the Director. 
 
 
Mr. Chairman. 
 
small Pendleton Room available for that. 
 
 
several rounds of caucuses. 
 
members have made a wording change that the Labor folks have been 
considering. 
 
 
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  No, there's a -- 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, there's a motion -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- motion on the table -- 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- on the table -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- that wasn't seconded. 
MR. PHELPS:  I'll second that. 

MS. SIMON:  Well -- 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Now, there is also a prior motion -

 

15 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  That's J. David's original 

MR. ALLEN:  That's right. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And we're discussing.  Is it -- oh, 

MS. SIMON:  Right. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  And then -- 
MS. SIMON:  And then we were -- 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- there's a substitute -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- discussing the motion. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- motion that hasn't actually been 

 
motion. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
offered formally, right? 
 
 
boy. 
 
 
Chairman, I believe that the union is in agreement with this part 
of the substitute motion, the very few first sentences that 570-
MGT/LBR-1 be presented to Director Berry as an interim report 
with a further acknowledgement in a memo reviewed by all members 
that the Committee has not yet completed its work on addressing 
the requirements set out in FPRAC Document 563-OPM-1. 
 

MS. SIMON:  Now, we know -- 
MR. COX:  All right.  Well, I can tell you -- Mr. 

Then I believe Steve has -- you had given us another 

 

16 

MR. COX:  Yeah.  I'm trying to get to some piecework 

MR. FISHER:  To offer this back to the Committee, we 

MS. SIMON:  So you're offering this as a substitute for 

sort of substitute, and Steve had some final language there.  
Steve, if you want to read that last one that we feel comfortable 
-- 
 
your own motion; is that right? 
 
that we sort of know what we're working with. 
 
used most of what you provided in your last -- from the last 
caucus. 
Our proposal back to the Committee is this.  The 
 
Committee will provide the Director a report sufficient to 
address any remaining questions pertaining to 563-OPM-1 no later 
than February 29th, 2012.  That is our offer back. 
 
MS. SIMON:  So do we second that motion? 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Seconded. 
 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So we have a motion that -- 
MR. COX:  Well, you have to have some discussion before 
 
you vote. 
 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any discussion? 
MR. ALLEN:  Yes. I would like to offer a further 

 

17 

substitute motion to just change the date at the end of that 
proposal from February 29th, 2012, to the end of March 2012.I 
believe labor chose the February 29th date because of their 
concern that the Director of OPM would not have sufficient time 
if he elects to issue regulations to implement the FPRAC 
recommendation that we are considering by January 2013.  There 
would be enough time for the Director to make a decision, 
assuming he receives the complete FPRAC recommendation by the end 
of March.  So Labor should not be concerned with management’s 
proposal to change the February 29th, 2012, date to the end of 
March 2012.  I think if we pushed it further than the end of 
March, then it would become problematic with the time table since 
we would need to issue proposed regulations and then final 
regulations. 
As a technician, I don't see it as being problematic 
 
from a time table perspective for having a proposed regulation 
drafted for the Director if he directs that his staff prepare 
one, and that it get into the regulatory process with sufficient 
time to be implemented beginning in January 2013, if that is the 
decision the director makes. 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any response? 

 

18 

MR. ALLEN:  I would need a second to that. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Oh, okay.  Is there a second to 

 
 
Mark's amendment? 
MS. HANNON:  I would second. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Any discussion of that? 
 
MS. SIMON:  With all due respect, Mark, I don't feel 
 
comfortable with that time table, and I just think it's really 
too ambitious.  Hard experience has taught us that this takes 
always longer than one hopes it will take, and it's for that 
reason that we think we are already pushing the limits of a 
reasonable time table.  And the end of March would really make it 
too late, especially in 2012, and so we don't believe that 
substantive -- you know, that there are substantive outstanding 
issues that would alter or determine the Director's decision, 
which is why, of course, we have so strongly advocated giving him 
the interim report, because we think there is plenty of 
information in here to make a sound decision.  And pushing it 
back for 2 months is just unnecessary, and the risk of having it 
be too late is too great. 
Of course, right now we're both speculating, and I 
 
think that extra month could quite easily be the difference 

 

19 

We have not yet -- this report does not yet address the 

between running out of time or having sufficient time. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any further discussion? 
 
 
MR. RUMBLE:  The problem that I see is that there is 
only one FPRAC meeting between now and the end of February.  The 
work that the study group would have to do would have to be done 
prior to the February FPRAC meeting if it is going to be 
presented to us for consideration. 
We need sufficient time in advance of the meeting, so that we 
could take a look at the material. 
 
issues, the impact in 565-OC-2.  That's not addressed in here.  
The working group needs to do that, needs to complete that in 
order to provide a full and comprehensive report, and there just 
isn't time.  
 
members of FPRAC from studying this report on days that we don't 
have an FPRAC meeting.  There's plenty of time.  There was time 
prior to this meeting.  There will be time prior to that meeting, 
and there's also no reason why FPRAC can't meet, you know, by 
telephone or otherwise, you know, again, beforehand. 
 

MS. SIMON:  There is absolutely nothing to prevent 

But be that as it may, I think the substantive issue is 

 

20 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So, a question, is there any reason 

not whether or not Management members will have time to fully 
digest the work of the work group, but the question is whether or 
not there will be sufficient time for the Director to use this 
report in whatever way he considers appropriate and put the 
machinery of a new regulation into -- you know, into motion. 
And that's our concern, and that's why we're talking 
 
about this date.  Anyway, that's where our motion comes from. 
 
we couldn't have special meetings by telephone or by those who 
could come in person?  Is there any -- I know we announce our 
scheduled meetings in the Federal Register a year ahead of time 
and all that, but is there anything that would preclude us from 
having additional FPRAC meetings if we need to? 
 
Committee Act is that the public meeting of FPRAC needs to be 
announced in the Federal Register 15 days before the meeting 
takes place in order for the public to be able to come to the 
meeting, if they so choose. 
 
at least in principle, possible to set up an extra meeting? 
 

MR. ALLEN:  The requirement under the Federal Advisory 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So, subject to that, it would be, 

MS. SIMON:  But we don't need an extra meeting if we 

 

21 

MS. SIMON:  Correct. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So I guess another question I have, 

agree to one of these motions.  Then we have agreed to send to 
the Director the interim report with a memorandum that can be 
circulated, and people can, you know, prove it or whatever. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Basically, the difference in 
 
positions at this point is the one month.  Am I correct? 
 
 
which I will just throw out there, is if we were to go with the 
end-of-February date, by what mechanism would we ensure that 
whatever remaining work that needs to be done is actually done?  
So what's our authority to make that happen?  Or, basically, we'd 
be saying we'll go with whatever we got at that point, even if 
there is still some pieces not complete. 
 
group meetings have indicated that it is not technically feasible 
to answer all of the questions before mid March that are still 
unaddressed in what would be the interim report. 
 
would not be in a position where the remaining questions have 
been answered.  I think we'd really be putting ourselves at a 
disadvantage in terms of trying to have a full report to the 

MR. ALLEN:  The previous discussions at the working 

We would be a little further along in February, but we 

 

22 

MS. SIMON:  So, under your proposed alternative motion, 

Director by the end of February.  I think we're in a pretty good 
position if we would elect to have the report done by -- or 
presented to FPRAC for its March 15th meeting.  That would leave 
a couple of weeks before the end of March for the final report to 
go forward. 
 
the Director would get this along with a memo when? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  Are you referring to this -- 
MS. SIMON:  The interim report. 
 
 
MR. ALLEN:  -- binder? 
As the interim report?  When they -- 
 
 
MS. SIMON:  Yes.  And you want a memo, you want a cover 
memo. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management would be willing to allow the Director to see the 
interim report with a cover memo? 

MR. ALLEN:  With a cover memo -- 
MS. SIMON:  Now, when do you want -- 
MR. ALLEN:  -- that everybody -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- that -- 
MR. ALLEN:  -- has reviewed. 
MS. SIMON:  And what would be the earliest date 

 

23 

MR. ALLEN:  It could be as early as late next week. 
MS. SIMON:  So the cover memo could be approved by 

MR. ALLEN:  We can send it via email to get people's 

MS. SIMON:  Well, there's a question about, you know, 

 
 
everybody by late next week, best-case scenario? 
 
feedback on it. 
 
there could be endless debate over the contents of the cover 
memo.  That could be till the end of March or later, right? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  I wouldn't really see that happening.  I 
think we already have a pretty good start for the cover memo, 
which would be reflective of what the Chairman has put in his 
transmittal memo for 570-MGT/LBR-1 to the full Committee.  There 
would just need to be some modifications to that. 
 
than January 27th? 
 
 
 
 
 
perspective, if we get a memo, we will work with the Chairman on 

MR. ALLEN:  That would be the best-case scenario, yes. 
MS. SIMON:  What would be the worst-case scenario? 
MR. ALLEN:  I don't even want to think about that. 
MS. SIMON:  Well, we have to, unfortunately. 
MR. ALLEN:  All I can say is, from OPM staff 

MS. SIMON:  So we are saying January 27th, no later 

 

24 

The transmittal memo will reflect the consensus of the 

MS. SIMON:  Okay.  Well, let's say you’ve written -- 

it, and we will get the comments turned around very quickly. 
 
working group members for what will be the interim report. 
 
you've written your transmittal memo by next Wednesday, okay?  It 
gets circulated for approval, and you don't hear from people.  
People are on leave or they don't get around to it or they don't 
read it, and here we are in February.  Then we're in mid 
February.  Then we're at the next FPRAC meeting, and they haven't 
had time to really focus yet, and we're still waiting on the 
cover memo. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Can I make a suggestion?  Would it 
help to have a deadline by which we get this to the Director, put 
a date on that?  I don't know what.  A week from now?  Whatever 
you think is -- a tight but achievable -- I mean, I don't see why 
we can't write the memo, the cover memo as soon as we have some -
- you know, a couple of us write it after lunch, and we can turn 
that around quickly and get it out to people and give people a 
couple days. 
 
that many of us -- to make follow-up telephone calls to 10 

I guess we could even offer, if need be -- there's not 

 

25 

MS. SIMON:  So we would add some language to the 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  That still leaves end of February 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
MS. SIMON:  So you consider that a friendly amendment 

MR. ALLEN:  Yeah.  It really -- 
MS. SIMON:  An interim report to the Director with it 

people, if we haven't heard from you. 
 
substitute motion, to Management substitute motion, that it be 
presented to the Director as an interim report no later than 
January 27th? 
 
 
to your -- 
 
 
being -- an interim -- Director -- no later than January 27, 
2012. 
MR. ALLEN:  It really shouldn't be too complex a matter 
 
since I think most of the words we have are already out there, so 
to speak.  It is just a matter of putting them into the format of 
another transmittal memo. 
MS. SIMON:  I understand. 
 
MR. ALLEN:  What would be a consensus recommendation if 
 
we have agreement on the time table we are trying to set out for 
ourselves? 
 

 

26 

MR. ALLEN:  I think procedurally, Jacque's substitute 

MS. SIMON:  [Speaking off mic.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Go for it. 
[Labor caucus held off the record.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We are back in session. 
Is there anything you would like to report from your 

versus end of March for the actual -- you know, for the, call it, 
"final recommendation" of FPRAC to the Director. 
 
motion was to the motion that I previously made, so that would be 
March 2012. 
 
 
 
 
 
caucus? 
 
MR. COX:  Mr. Chairman, I think we are just about 
there.  I wanted to go back to make sure that we feel pretty 
comfortable that we can have this interim report to the Director 
by January 27th, which would be next week, and this one, I'm 
going to say three times, because I want it in the record three 
times in bold print, that Mark Allen said March of 2012 would not 
be too late to get new regulations printed and go through the 
process for 2012 to be ready for 2013. 
 
late? 

Am I correct on that, Mark, that March would not be too 

 

27 

[Laughter.] 

MR. COX:  The world could end. 

So, with that, I believe we can try to be comfortable 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We should add an amendment that 

MR. ALLEN:  That is my opinion. 
 
MR. COX:  That is your opinion. 
 
 
 
MR. COX:  So I'm going to say that -- so I'm going to 
 
say one more time that Mark said and that that's Mark's opinion. 
 Okay. 
 
with this end-of-March-2012 date. 
 
Mark will pay any increases at the -- 
 
 
probably not going to get. 
[Laughter.] 
 
MR. COX:  No.  I mean, sometimes I think we want to be 
 
clear.  That's a real major concern of ours, as you know that.  
There's a lot of dynamics that will occur in this year. 
 
some things that are, of course, outside of my control.  They're 
outside of Director Berry's control. 
 

[Laughter.] 
MR. COX:  Out of his increased retirement that he's 

MR. ALLEN:  There are a lot of dynamics.  There are 

 

28 

MR. ALLEN:  We could have snow this year. 
 
MS. SIMON:  We're not getting snow. 
 
MR. ALLEN:  It certainly doesn't seem like it. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Does anybody have an actual copy of 
 
the motion that we're now considering, that we might want to read 
aloud one time? 
MS. SIMON:  Substitute motion that 570 Management -- 
 
MR. COX:  And it starts here. 
 
 
MS. SIMON:  Yeah, it starts here.  570-MGT/LBR-1 will 
be presented to the Director no later than January 27, 2012, as 
an interim report with a further acknowledgement in a memo 
reviewed by all members, that the committee -- this is really 
lovely prose. 
 
 
its work in addressing the requirements set out in FPRAC Document 
563-OPM-1.  The Committee will provide to the Director a report 
sufficient to address his questions contained in 563-OPM-1 no 
later than the end of March 2012. 
 
appears we have consensus on that? 

[Laughter.] 
MS. SIMON:  That the Committee has not yet completed 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So there you have it, and it 

 

29 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  A motion to adjourn -- whoa, whoa. 

[Laughter.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there any other new business? 
MR. ALLEN:  There is another issue that we wanted to 

 
 
 I'm sorry. 
 
 
 
raise. 
There is a certain level of discomfort among the 
 
Management members who sit at the table that they have not 
participated actively in the working group meetings.  So we have 
a suggestion that we wanted to float, and that is that we include 
the FPRAC Management members in the working group meetings, 
however many we have, between now and when the report is 
complete, and that the technical staff members from DoD also be 
allowed to come to the meetings as advisers, with the 
understanding that we're not trying to load the decks and have 
more Management members present in the working group meetings 
than Labor members.  Labor could bring alternates if they wanted 
to do that. 
 
on any issues that come out of the working group meetings, and we 

The idea, again, is that we are not intending to vote 

 

30 

would be presenting the views of all of the working group 
members.  And what is currently lacking from this interim report 
are the views of the Management members who sit at the table who 
have not been able to come to the meetings to see everything 
that's been discussed. 
MS. SIMON:  You know, Management has always had its 
 
choice of who to send to these meetings, as has Labor, but we 
wanted equal numbers, so that it wasn't a 10:1 ratio, as it 
sometimes is. 
 
And when you don't come to the meeting and you want to 
know what happened, you got to ask the people who were there what 
happened, and I think that’s part of why we've made such -- we've 
had such productive meetings is because it hasn't been a 20:1 
ratio of Management to Labor folks in the room.  It's been a 
manageable number of people.  We could have actual substantive 
conversations, and it's worked well. 
 
changing that ratio.  You guys are free to rotate who comes to 
your meetings to represent Management.  By all means, rotate 
away. 
 

MR. RUMBLE:  The problem is that our tech staff is 

I would like to say that I'm not comfortable with 

 

31 

MR. RUMBLE:  Do we agree with that? 
ATTENDEE:  No. 
ATTENDEE:  No. 
MS. SIMON:  Well, sorry. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, I mean -- 
MR. RUMBLE:  And I would like to point out, Jacque, 

necessary to be there to do -- I mean, this is their job.  They 
know this material. 
 
MS. SIMON:  We have, you know, sort of answered a lot 
of it, I think all the technical questions.  At this point, it's 
really procuring data and then doing the number crunching, and 
all those kind of questions have already been answered, so, you 
know -- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that numbers don't really matter much.  It seems to me that Labor 
does very well holding their own, whatever the numbers are on 
each side of the table. 
 
but I don't agree with it. 
 
numbers don't matter that much, we would like to quadruple all 
the official time that AFGE has throughout the Federal 

MS. SIMON:  It's just -- that's a nice thing to say, 

MR. COX:  I couldn't agree with that, either.  If 

 

32 

[Laughter.] 
MR. RUMBLE:  Let me rephrase that:  Labor members at 

Government.  And I suspect the numbers would matter. 
 
 
FPRAC manage to hold their own.  I'm not sure about the rest.  I 
don't deal with Labor the rest of -- 
MR. COX:  Trust me, you know, I believe the technical 
 
people that come to these meetings and do this work get it done. 
 I'm an elected official inside of AFGE.  Jacque obviously is a 
staff person and does that work and things like that.  She keeps 
me well abreast and carries out.  She does not make decisions.  
This is not my decision or President Gage's decision, and I 
believe the same thing goes on with Management members also. 
 
observation.  I do think that Jacque made a very good point about 
the productivity of the meetings when there are not too many 
people in the room.  It's hard to function as a study group, in 
my opinion, with a huge number of people in the room.  I wonder 
if there is some way, not, you know, disputing -- the Management 
folks have a legitimate concern, would like to have some more 
folks in the room, but I think just throwing it open and having 
unlimited numbers and no concern about the ratio is also a 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If I could just offer an 

 

33 

I think we ought to find a way to get all the 

MR. ALLEN:  I think procedurally, we would need to make 

We are also guided by an FPRAC -- 
MS. SIMON:  Yeah. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- document that created this study 

problem. 
 
 
 
group, which actually spelled out the numbers and the ratio, I 
recall.  I'm reluctant to just throw that away, especially given 
that one side is objecting. 
 
Management input that it wants to have that doesn't require, a 
huge number of people in the room.  There must be a way we can do 
that.  How do we resolve this now? 
 
a change in the document, Mr. Chairman, you are referring to, 
which indicated there would be five Management members and five 
Labor members with the Chairman of FPRAC serving as the chairman 
of the working group. 
 
on that, and as the Chairman has said, he prefers not to 
readdress that issue.  So am I hearing that correctly? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah, that would be my preference, 
 
but I don't want to ignore the concerns that the Management folks 

It appears that we certainly would not have consensus 

 

34 

MR. PHELPS:  I think all of management has been 

are raising.  If there is some other way that we can accommodate 
that, that doesn't require unlimited numbers of Management people 
in the room. 
 
represented there on some level, maybe not the FPRAC member 
there, but certainly people under Steve, there's been plenty of 
them in the room that could report back to him, everything that 
is going on there, and the ones that came up with the majority of 
the stuff, you know, and I'm sure he can share it with the other 
parts of DoD.  You know, VA has been there on a number of 
occasions themselves.  Mark has been there every time. 
 
the format of the working group membership, so I withdraw the 
idea that I floated. 
 
 
 
 
working group meeting now.  I know we have some new material that 
we were going to distribute.  I guess that could be done 
electronically. 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any other New Business? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Now, we were going to have a 

MR. ALLEN:  I don't see us making progress on changing 

 

35 

MR. ALLEN:  We have a limited amount of information.  

•-•-• 

MS. GONZALEZ:  [Speaking off mic.]  Can we leave it 

 
We can provide that, and it can be done electronically to the 
working group members. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So I am thinking people have 
 
probably had enough today on this, so we ought to schedule 
working group meetings. 
 
open until I can make sure I have other sections finished? 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Sure.  Until we have some new 
material, okay. 
 
 
 
 
 
have consensus.  Thank you all. 
 

So anybody want to adjourn? 
MS. SIMON:  Yeah. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Anybody else? 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Second. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Everybody wants to.  All right.  We 

