FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

1 

620th FPRAC 

JILL L. NELSON, Chair, Presiding 

Thursday, September 20, 2018 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management  

Washington, D.C. 20415 

ATTENDANCE: 

Members/Alternates: 

Management Members: 
Mark Allen, OPM 
Christopher Lynch, DoD 
Susie Collins, Navy 
Deon Fortune-Canada, Air Force 
Carin Otero, VA 

Labor Members: 
Paul O'Connor, MTD 
Jacque Simon, AFGE 
Richard Loeb, AFGE 
Robert Shore, NAGE 
Terry Garnett, ACT 
 

Staff Specialists and Visitors: 

Brenda Roberts, Designated Federal Officer, OPM 
Madeline Gonzalez, OPM 
Karl Fendt, DoD 
Gary Kistner, DoD 
Becky Chaves, DoD 
Michelle Francois, Army 
Gary Buck, Army 
Debbie Kolen, VA 
Erica Abiera, VA 
Timothy Traylor, NAGE 
 

Recording Secretaries: 

Mike Eicher, OPM 
Ana Paunoiu, OPM 

[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.] 

C O N T E N T S  

2 

Page 

I.  Opening/Announcements 

Introductions.............................................................................................3 
• 
•  Announcements.........................................................................................5 

OC-1 

-  Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee Annual Summary, 2016, 620-
-  Charter for the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee, 620-
-  FPRAC Membership Roster for FY 2018, 620-OC-3 

OC-2 

II.  Review of the Minutes of the 619th Meeting...................................................6 

III.  Old Business.....................................................................................................6 
a.  Letter from the National Association of Government Employees, Dated 
March 9, 2016, Requesting FPRAC Reexamine the Placement of Wage 
Grade Employees Working in Shawnee County, KS, 611-NAGE-1 
-  Review of Shawnee County, Kansas, 612-MGT-1 
-  Additional Information on Shawnee County, Kansas, 614-OPM-1 
-  Supporting Documentation from Topeka WG Employees, 614-
-  Additional Information on the Topeka, Kansas, Wage Area, 615-
-  Additional Request from the National Association of Government 
b.  Definition of Pitt County, North Carolina, to a Nonappropriated Fund 

Employees and Replies to Questions, 618-NAGE-1 

NAGE-1 through 614-NAGE-7  

OPM-1 

Federal Wage System Wage Area, 614-MGT-2 
-  Additional Information on Pitt County, North Carolina, 616-OPM-2 
c.  Review of the San Antonio, Texas, Federal Wage System Wage Area, 

and 617-OPM-1 

617-MGT-1  
-  Quit Rates in the San Antonio, TX, Wage Area by Job Family 

During Fiscal Year 2015, 618-OPM-1 

IV.  New Business....................................................................................................7 

a.  2018 , Update to Review of Shawnee County, Kansas, 620-MGT-1 
b.  Regulatory Criteria Analysis for the Topeka, Kansas, Wage Area, 620-

OPM-1 

c.  2018 Update to Definition of Pitt County, North Carolina, to a 

Nonappropriated Fund Federal Wage System Wage Area, 620-MGT-2 

d.  2018 Update to Review of the San Antonio, Texas, Federal Wage 

System Wage Area, 620-MGT-3 
-  2018 Update to Quit Rates in the San Antonio, TX, Wage Area by 
e.  North American Industry Classification System Based Federal Wage 

Job Family During Fiscal Year 2017, 620-OPM-2 

System Wage Surveys (2017 Update), 620-MGT-4 

f.  Amendment to section 532.259(a) of title 5, Code of Federal 

Regulations, 620-MGT-5 

3 

g.  Definition of St. Joseph County, Indiana, to a Nonappropriated Fund 

Federal Wage System Wage Area, 620-MGT-6 

h.  Definition of Lucas County, Ohio, to a Nonappropriated Fund Federal 

Wage System Wage Area, 620-MGT-7 

i.  Definition of Greene County, Missouri, to a Nonappropriated Fund 

Federal Wage System Wage Area, 620-MGT-8 

j.  Redefinition of the Guaynabo-San Juan, Puerto Rico, Nonappropriated 

Fund Federal Wage System Wage Area, 620-MGT-9 

k.  Alaska Set-Aside Area Differential Schedules, 620-MGT-10 
l.  Letter from the American Federation of Government Employees, Dated 
September 6, 2018, Requesting FPRAC Review a Proposal to Not Allow 
Federal Wage System Wage Area Boundaries to Split General Schedule 
Locality Pay Areas and a Proposal to Redefine Monroe County, PA, 
from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA, Wage Area to the New York, NY, 
Wage Area, 620-AFGE-1 
 
 

 

4 

P R O C E E D I N G  

CHAIR NELSON: Good morning. Will the meeting please come to order? We 

have the recorders on. 

This is the 620th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee. It's 

now 10:02. We're prompt. 

The meeting is being recorded, and a transcript will be provided to all members. 

Good morning, everyone. My name is Jill Nelson. I've tried to go around the room 

to meet everyone. I'm pleased and honored to be the Chair of this Committee. I'm looking 

forward to working with all of you. 

At this point, I think we need to start with introductions so we've got them on 

record. Let's go around the table first.  

Terry, do you want to start? 

MR. GARNETT: Terry Garnett, Association of Civilian Technicians, ACT, 

National President. 

MR. TRAYLOR: Good morning. Tim Traylor. I'm with the National Association 

of Government Employees. 

MR. SHORE: And Rob Shore, also with the National Association of Government 

Employees. 

MR. LOEB: Hi. Richard Loeb, Senior Policy Counsel, American Federation of 

Government Employees. 

MS. SIMON: Jacque Simon, American Federation of Government Employees. 

MR. O'CONNOR: Paul O'Connor, Metal Trades Department and IEW. 

MR. ALLEN: Mark Allen. I'm the Pay Systems Manager at OPM. 

5 

MR. LYNCH: Christopher Lynch, Department of Defense. 

MS. FORTUNE-CANADA: Deon Fortune-Canada, Headquarters, Air Force. 

MS. COLLINS: Susie Collins, Department of Navy. 

MS. OTERO: Carin Otero, Veterans Affairs. 

CHAIR NELSON: Okay. Let's go around the room and get everybody. 

MS. ABIERA: I am Erica Abiera, Veterans Affairs. 

MS. KOLEN: Hi. I'm Deb Kolen, VA. 

MS. ROBERTS: I'm Brenda Roberts. I'm the Designated Federal Officer, OPM. 

MR. BUCK: Gary Buck, Department of Army. 

MS. FRANCOIS: Michelle Francois from Army. 

MS. CHAVES: Becky Chaves, DoD. 

MR. FENDT: Karl Fendt, DoD. 

MR. KISTNER: Gary Kistner, DoD. 

MR. EICHER: Mike Eicher, OPM. 

MS. GONZALEZ: Madeline Gonzalez, OPM. 

MS. PAUNOIU: Ana Paunoiu, OPM. 

CHAIR NELSON: We've got everybody covered. Awesome. 

Let's go through the announcements first. There's a couple things in your folder. A 

couple of them are basically provided for the record for your packets, and the first one is the 

Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee Annual Survey 2016. It is 620-OC-1. 

This report was adopted at the last meeting with the Committee, which was on 

January 12th, 2017. We've had it put in the packet for all of you, just as a copy for the record. 

You've also been provided a copy of the Committee's Charter for the record, 

6 

which was signed in—February 2018? January 2018? It's pretty current. 

MR. ALLEN: Yes, this one will take us through February 2020. 

CHAIR NELSON: Okay. 

There's also a roster that's been provided, which identifies each of the primary 

members and the primary alternates. 

Are there any announcements from any of you? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIR NELSON: I hear none. 

We need to go back and review the minutes of the 619th meeting. It's been a 

while, I know, but the Committee still needs to approve the minutes of the meeting which was 

held on January 12, 2017. 

OPM has not received any edits or corrections for this meeting. 

Are there any edits or corrections offered today for the transcript? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIR NELSON: Are there any objections to adopting the transcript? 

MR. ALLEN: No objections. 

CHAIR NELSON: Okay. Seeing and hearing no objections, I'll entertain a motion 

to accept the minutes of the 619th meeting. 

MR. ALLEN: I'll move to accept the minutes. 

CHAIR NELSON: Do we have a second? 

MR. SHORE: Second. 

CHAIR NELSON: Moved and seconded. Minutes are approved. 

So now we move on to the Old Business. The agenda we got before us today, it's 

7 

quite lengthy and substantive. The old agenda items were already old agenda items when the 

Committee last met. That being said, I doubt if we're going to get through everything in our 

agenda today, but we're going to try. Mostly, it's been 2 years, so let's see what we can do. We'll 

take each thing as we come. 

As we approach the Old Business, I think it will be helpful as we get to each 

agenda item, that we have a refresher discussion on them. 

Mark, would you like to start us off with the request to reexamine the placement 

of wage grade employees working on Shawnee County? If I understand it right, this kind of 

overlaps with the Topeka, Kansas, one, and this was a request by NAGE. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. If it's okay with everybody, I'll start running through the 

agenda, starting with the Old Business. These things have been updated. So, in a way, we're 

actually moving straight from Old Business into the New Business items. 

CHAIR NELSON: That's what I was wondering, and I was going to see if it was 

okay with all of you if we just kind of like incorporated the old and the new on those items 

because those items, technically they're still old, but at the same time, they're our first three on 

New Business. 

MR. ALLEN: Under Old Business, there are three items that have been remaining 

on the agenda at the last FPRAC meeting. 

Under Old Business (a), those documents are still relevant in the Old Business, 

but we have updates for the Shawnee County review, which is basically the Topeka wage area 

under New Business items (a) and (b). 

For item (b) in Old Business, we have a New Business document in item (c), and 

then for Old Business item (c), we have a New Business document in item (d). 

8 

There are two ways we can go about this. We can do them sequentially, just go 

through Shawnee County first and have a discussion about that -- I doubt we're going to have 

consensus on that one today -- or I can just run through all the New Business items, get them out 

on the table. It depends on what the members want to do. 

MS. SIMON: I think it will be good to go through all the three. 

MR. ALLEN: Three, Old Business? 

MS. SIMON: Well, Kansas, North Carolina, and Texas. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. 620-MGT-1 is an update to a previous document that OPM 

staff put together at the request of the Labor members on the Committee. It was originally 

introduced for discussion in May of 2016. We had a number of visits from local employees and 

some testimony that they presented. Basically, this is an update that starting on page 3—and I'll 

go through the viability of the Topeka wage area, whether it still meets the regulatory 

requirements to be a separate wage area, and from the Management perspective, it does—covers 

metropolitan statistical areas and survey area considerations starting on page 5. 

On page 6, there is a previous statement from VA management in the local area 

regarding the Topeka VA Medical Center and the Leavenworth VA Medical Center. 

There was some discussion at the previous meetings about the perception that 

employees under the Federal Wage System in those two Medical Centers were somehow 

working together, and this statement explains the degree to which that was happening or was not 

happening. 

MR. SHORE: Mark, can I just jump in really quick on that? Because I had a 

question. My recollection was that that was the list that was provided by the VA earlier in the 

process, shortly after the original request by NAGE was made, and I think that at some point 

9 

along the lines, there was additional information that I provided on behalf of these employees—

that the drivers who drive the vans were going between different facilities, including some of the 

CBOCs, which are the off-site medical centers as well as the Leavenworth. And I didn't see that 

mentioned in this summary. Do you know if it was covered or if they went back and looked at 

that? 

MR. ALLEN: It was not covered in this summary. It's probably one of the Old 

Business items. 

MR. SHORE: Okay.  

MR. ALLEN: The documents in Old Business contain a lot of information that 

may be helpful for the members to go back and look at. Those documents are also a refresher to 

see what various things came up, like the shuttle going between Topeka and Leavenworth and 

the outpatient clinics in that area. 

So what I would suggest in this case is putting this back on the agenda as a New 

Business item to try and help us catch up with what had been going on almost a couple of years 

now. It would be helpful for everybody to review this document, and if anybody needs the 

previous documents, if they don't have them, we can send those out to you. 

MS. SIMON: I'm just looking through this now, Mark, and it's, you know, kind of 

surprising to see that the examples provided by the union involving—you know, there's lots, 

maintenance workers, but housekeepers in particular. 

I mean, we've got this report from the employees, and apparently, a manager says 

it never happened? It seems like we need some more research because it jumps out at me that—I 

can't imagine somebody just fabricated that kind of an assertion. It seems very, very unusual and 

implausible. 

10 

MR. ALLEN: It's a case where everybody may go back and take a fresh look. 

MS. SIMON: Okay. 

MR. ALLEN: So we'll have to lean on VA to take a look at this, and if there's 

anything new to be added to the record, I think that would be appreciated by everybody. 

Starting with page 8 of 620-MGT-1, there is a summary of the regulatory criteria, 

but the— 

MS. SIMON: What's the minimum number of workers to justify the existence of a 

separate wage area? 

MR. ALLEN: There's a minimum of 100 prevailing rate employees to establish an 

appropriated fund FWS wage area, but there was never a minimum established to continue a 

wage area; in this case, there are about 700 wage employees. That goes back to what I was 

mentioning a little earlier, which is that the wage area continues to meet all of OPM's 

requirements to remain a separate wage area. 

MS. SIMON: But there isn't a minimum number of employees required? 

MR. ALLEN: No. The regulations only say there has to be 100 or more wage 

employees to establish a wage area, but we haven't established a new wage area since 1972. 

MR. O'CONNER: I have a question. Would you typically modify a wage area if 

you consistently have a minimum of 100 employees in that wage area year to year? 

MR. ALLEN: We usually rely on DoD to tell us when they can no longer 

accommodate a survey in a local wage area. 

There was one wage area where the employment got down to maybe 80, 85 

people, and that had reached the point where they no longer maintained separate wage surveys 

for that area. It's happened a couple of times. 

11 

But these are going to be—usually they're in wage areas with a fairly small 

number of employees. Columbus, Mississippi, may have been one, and Oscoda-Alpena, 

Michigan, is one. That's when I first started working this program way back in the early '90s. 

Document 620-OPM-1. The Labor members asked us to provide the Committee 

with information regarding a hypothetical of what would happen or what would have happened if 

the Topeka wage area were hypothetically to be abolished, what disposition the counties for 

Topeka would have under the regulatory criteria. So we have charts in here that show where 

counties and where employees would end up. 

On the first page down at the bottom, we have several counties, which would go 

to the Wichita wage area. On the second page, we have the counties that would go to Kansas 

City, and the three counties that would go to Omaha. But, of course, this is not what the 

Management members would recommend. This is what would happen if the wage area were to 

be abolished for some reason. 

And on subsequent pages, it lists the analysis of the regulatory criteria, which is 

an indication of why each county would be possibly defined to which area. 

Another option would be just to define the entire wage area to a neighboring wage 

area, but we didn't look at that possibility. 

Any questions on those, those two documents? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIR NELSON: Nope. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. Moving on to the definition of Pitt County, North Carolina, 

to a Nonappropriated Fund wage area. I believe we left off on this one. There's one position there 

at a VA canteen service facility. AFGE was going to reach out to their field activity and get their 

12 

opinion on the change that the Management members have recommended based on regulatory 

criteria. 

Looking at the map is the clearest way of viewing what the Management 

members have recommended and why. 

There is a map in Attachment 1, where it says Wayne County, North Carolina, 

NAF wage area, Current Regulations. Wayne County is in a sort of dark shaded green color. 

That's where Seymour Johnson Air Force Base is. 

Pitt County is two counties over from that. It's highlighted, and the name is in red. 

The Marine Corps Air Station in Cherry Point is located in the Craven NAF FWS wage area. The 

single employee working for VCS #358 in Pitt County is being paid from the Cumberland wage 

schedule, and the Management members believe this is inappropriate. Since so somebody would 

have to go through Wayne County to get to Cumberland, it doesn’t make sense that Pitt County 

be defined to a survey area that is that far away. We are recommending from a prevailing rate 

perspective and based on the regulatory criteria, that Pitt County be defined to the Wayne wage 

area. 

When we had been discussing this before, the issue came up that that single 

employee's wage rate would decrease. The employee was made into a permanent employee, 

permanent position, so he or she would be covered by pay retention. Of course, any future 

employees would not be covered by pay retention, so would be on a lower wage schedule than 

the one that we believe was inappropriately applied before. 

Any questions on that one? 

MR. O'CONNER: The employee is working where? 

MR. ALLEN: At the VA—in an outpatient clinic in Greenville, North Carolina. 

13 

MR. O'CONNER: And that county is where? That's Wayne? 

MR. ALLEN: No. He or she is in Pitt County, and the closest survey area to Pitt 

County is Wayne. If you go through the regulatory criteria, mainly it is looking at distance, and it 

is 43 miles to Seymour-Johnson Air Force Base in the Wayne wage area, and 63 miles to Marine 

Corps Air Station Cherry Point in the Craven wage area. 

CHAIR NELSON: Any discussion on that one? 

[No audible response.] 

MR. ALLEN: Regarding the Old Business items, it may just be a case where 

members just need to wrap their heads around the issues. There's been a lot of stuff on the 

agenda to go through. It's quite detailed information. 

If it's okay with everybody, I'll move on to the next one, which was Old Business 

item (c), New Business item (d), 620-MGT-3. Again, this is an update. 620-OPM-2 is also an 

update of previously provided information. 

There's apparently some concern expressed from employees in San Antonio that 

the Corpus Christie, Texas, wage schedule was substantially higher than the one of San 

Antonio—$4 an hour higher. So the Management members took a look at whether or not the San 

Antonio, Texas, wage area was still meeting OPM's requirements to remain a separate wage area, 

and in our opinion, it does - there are around 3,200 wage employees working in the San Antonio, 

Texas, wage area. 

In 620-MGT, we go through what agencies employ wage employees in the San 

Antonio wage area and which Labor Unions represent the workers there. We also cover the 

Corpus Christi area where there are about 2,500 prevailing rate employees. 

I'll point out that Corpus Christi—this came up during our discussions before—

14 

Corpus Christi is a smaller labor market than San Antonio, and statistics are in the back of the 

package, but we are guessing that the possible reason for the wage rates being substantially 

higher in Corpus Christi than in San Antonio is because of the Gulf Coast oil industry. 

We have on page 9 updated information about the observations from local wage 

surveys, most recently in San Antonio and in Corpus Christi. I see much more data coming in 

from San Antonio, just because the economy there is much bigger, but you also see in most cases 

that the wage rates are significantly higher in the Corpus Christi wage area. 

MS. SIMON: Except for truck drivers. 

MR. ALLEN: Truck drivers are 32 percent lower in Corpus Christi than in San 

Antonio. 

MS. SIMON: And electricians. It's shocking. Nothing is organized. 

MR. ALLEN: So because we are working on a prevailing rate system, the survey 

findings, of course, translate into what's on the wage schedule. The wage schedule is lower at 

every grade level in San Antonio than in Corpus Christi. Labor markets are just different. 

We've got maps. The maps haven't changed since we last saw them. 

MS. SIMON: Climate change isn't that fast, huh? 

MR. ALLEN: The position of the Management members has not changed on this 

one. We don't see a good reason to abolish a wage area that is a distinct labor market from the 

San Antonio wage area. 

In 620-OPM-2, we have an update to the employment and quit rates. I think what 

sort of stands out to me on this is that we've got higher quit rates employees at lower grade level 

work, so food service and custodial work is a significant quit rate for those occupations, but not 

necessarily for skilled trades. 

15 

MS. SIMON: Well, let's see. Where do you have the ones that sort of jumped out 

at us with the big, big differentials? Like warehouse worker and— 

MR. ALLEN: General Services and Support Work. 

MS. SIMON: So where is electrician? Is electrician here? 

MR. ALLEN: Electrician is in the 2800 job family - electrical installation and 

maintenance work. Two quits out of 101 employees, so around 2 percent. 

Although there is some turnover in the lower paid work, we don't really see— 

MS. SIMON: You don't have warehouse workers, or do you? Oh, yes, you do. 

6900. 

MR. ALLEN: 19 quits of 265 employees. 

MS. SIMON: Yeah. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. So that covers three Old Business items with New Business 

updated documents. If everybody is okay with it, I can move on to the next documents in New 

Business. 

On some of these, we should be able to get consensus fairly easily. 

CHAIR NELSON: It is in folder No. 2. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. I direct your attention to New Business item (e), 620-MGT-

4. The Federal Wage System uses the North American Industry Classification System to 

determine what industries are surveyed in the Federal Wage System wage surveys. We've been 

using what we call the NAICS coding scheme for many, many years, and every now and then, 

OMB will update the definitions. This document is basically just a technical update. There's no 

intention here to change any of the industry coverage. We're just pointing to new codes. 

The chart there at the bottom of the first page is adopting an updated coding 

16 

system for department stores and general merchandise stores. We are just updating the previous 

2012 NAICS manual into the current one for 2017. We don't expect any real changes in the 

surveys based on these updates in the NAICS codes. 

There are some changes to the appropriated fund system on page 3. There's an 

update from—let's take an example—51711, Wire Telecommunications Carriers. The Office of 

Management and Budget is changing the code for that, making it more specific, and kept the 

same name. That would be under the Artillery and Combat Vehicle Specialized Industry under 

the Monroney Amendment regulations. And there's a similar change under Guided Specialized 

Industry Coverage. It's on page 4. It summarizes what we're recommending to be done in the 

regulations. 

MS. SIMON: Mark, since there are so many new people, could you explain how 

these kind of changes would affect our data collection? 

MR. ALLEN: Do you want to take that, Chris? 

MR. LYNCH: Thanks, Mark. 

MR. ALLEN: Put you on the spot. 

[Laughter.] 

MR. LYNCH: I guess in one, in the case of the warehouse clubs and super 

centers, that expands our data collection effort, and it gives us—I don't believe we currently 

survey some of them that may have—on the NAF side that may have the grocery stores and 

such. So I think in some cases, it really won't have much of a difference, but I do believe in, for 

instance, the warehouse clubs and super centers, that will expand our ability to collect data. 

MS. SIMON: Oh, that one made sense, but what I didn't understand was the stuff 

on page 4, where you deleted this Communication Specialized Industry, Artillery Combat 

17 

Vehicle. What will they be replaced with since we know we have federal people performing 

work in those industries? 

MR. ALLEN: The specific regulations that are being proposed to be amended are 

not the regular wage survey regulations. They're the regulations that would determine whether 

there's a specialized industry. 

MS. SIMON: Right. 

MR. ALLEN: It's usually called the Monroney Amendment where you— 

MS. SIMON: No, I understand. So, for example, at Tobyhanna, you've got 

Specialized Electronic Communications work going on. It's an electronics depot. I don't know if 

in that wage area, you have private-sector work that's remotely similar, and I wonder what you're 

going to replace this with now that you've proposed to delete it. 

MR. ALLEN: We're not proposing to delete anything here. 

MS. SIMON: I thought it said delete these codes. 

MR. ALLEN: We're taking codes under the previous publication and replacing 

them with updated codes that cover the same industries as close as possible. So there's no intent 

with these things to eliminate coverage. There's really no reason to do that. 

MS. SIMON: It's just you're substituting a new one for an old one. 

MR. ALLEN: Yeah. 

MR. O'CONNOR: It's just a number changing or is it some change in the 

specifics? 

MR. ALLEN: I can't say it's just numbers. There is some wording change in the 

coverage, like “Discount department stores.” On the first page, under the 2017 NAICS code, the 

“Discount Department Stores, insignificant perishable grocery sales, this would be covered by 

18 

“Department Stores.” It's really up to the Local Wage Survey Committees to figure out what is 

supposed to be covered under OPM's regulations. 

But the intent of this document really is just to bring the coding scheme up to date 

with current coding. It's nothing more than that. 

MS. SIMON: We don't know what 541713 is, right? You're not adding it. It is not 

in the chart on page 3. 

MR. SHORE: That's the one you're not adding, correct? Research and 

Development in Nanotechnology? 

MR. ALLEN: I believe that one is being added. 

MR. SHORE: 541713. Do not add. It was 541712. 

MS. SIMON: Oh, here. Okay. Now I see it. Thank you. 

MR. SHORE: Is there an explanation as to why not? It looks like 541712 has been 

split into two different new codes, maybe more, but at least two that are documented here. The 

one that Jacque was just talking about, which is 713, ends in 713, and then 715, which is being 

added, is there a reason that you're aware of why 713 is not being added? 

MR. ALLEN: Madeline, what was the reason behind that? 

MS. GONZALEZ: I consulted with Department of Defense, and they did not 

recommend that “Research and Development in Nanotechnology” be included. DoD obtains very 

few, if any, samples obtained for nanotechnology. 

MS. SIMON: They don't employ anybody who is involved in that function? 

MR. FENDT: The goal of the conversion was to mimic as best we could the 

current system because those codes were going away, and so all the decisions made were simply 

to be as close to the current system as possible from a NAICS standpoint. 

19 

I can tell you anecdotally—and, of course, we can provide research after the fact 

if it's required, but there is very few examples that you're getting from these NAICS codes, but 

we can provide a more detailed analysis for that if you would like. And that would be current 

and— 

MS. SIMON: No, I understand. I mean, it sounds like what you're saying is the 

private sector may have changed, but the federal sector is not changing its job, so it doesn't need 

to have these new categories? 

MR. FENDT: So, again, it wasn't about what is the—these NAICS codes went 

away. So then we did the best we could to come up with the closest representation of what the 

new NAICS codes were, and so that's simply the process that we went through. And, again, these 

NAICS codes are very light from a data standpoint. 

MR. ALLEN: It sounds like we need to do some more thinking about this. It 

looks like more information is needed on this or just the process of getting used to what the 

updates are. 

MR. SHORE: I think if the proposal were amended, at least from NAGE's 

perspective—I don't want to speak for anybody else—to include the 713s, even though currently 

there may not be many people we're aware of doing it—therefore, there's really no change 

whatsoever—it seems like that would probably resolve the concern that we have. 

MR. ALLEN: Do we have any objections to that? 

MR. LYNCH: No, no objection. 

CHAIR NELSON: So that would be modified to include that, and then we would 

have a consensus on it moving forward? Does that sound good to everyone? 

MR. ALLEN: So just to be clear, it would be including 541713 in addition to 

20 

541715. 

CHAIR NELSON: Correct. 

MR. LOEB: So we are just going to strike that last bullet from the analysis? 

CHAIR NELSON: Yes. I think that's the easiest way to say it. 

MR. LOEB: There's a lot of numbers out there. 

CHAIR NELSON: I know, and it kind of didn't make sense how it was on the 

chart— 

MR. LOEB: Right. 

CHAIR NELSON: —but then it was like no, we're not. Good catch. 

MR. SHORE: Well, I think that if you strike the last one and then the one above 

it, it would say "and add NAICS codes," with an "s," 541713 and 541715. 

MR. ALLEN: So if we have consensus on this one, we'll move forward with a 

proposed regulation for public comment, and then go through the regulatory process and get the 

CFR updated for those. 

MS. SIMON: How long will that take, Mark? 

MR. ALLEN: Six months. Six months, maybe a year. 

CHAIR NELSON: That's why we're trying to move through as many of these as 

possible. 

MS. SIMON: I'm going to disagree on how long it should take OPM to get a 

regulation into the pipeline. 

MR. ALLEN: It takes a while. 

Okay. Next document is 620-MGT-5—again, it's really just a bookkeeping thing. 

We were made aware that our regulations for covering the U.S. insular areas—America Samoa, 

21 

Guam, Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands—were outdated. The reason for that is that 

OPM had designated lead agencies for those areas and DoD is covering Guam, Midway and the 

U.S. Virgin Islands. The Department of Transportation is covering America Samoa, and the 

Department of Interior is covering the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands. 

But what's been going on for a long time with the wage schedules that apply in 

those areas is that everybody is just getting the same wage schedule treatment. They get paid for 

an equivalent schedule to the foreign areas schedule as an average of all of the wage schedules in 

the continental U.S. 

So what we're doing here, since the Department of Transportation and 

Department of the Interior simply use DoD's wage schedule, is to just designate DoD as the lead 

agency for all of these. No changes in wage rates. It's just updating regulations to match with 

reality. 

one? 

CHAIR NELSON: Need discussion on this one? Do we have consensus on this 

MS. SIMON: Yeah. 

CHAIR NELSON: Excellent. 

MR. ALLEN: The next four documents are documents dealing with 

Nonappropriated Fund wage areas. The first three are dealing with, again, VA canteen service, 

adding a single position in three different counties. 

The first one, under 620-MGT-6, is St. Joseph County, Indiana, and we are 

recommending that that one be added to the Lake, Illinois, NAF wage area. It's basically taking 

one position that's in Mishawaka, Indiana, and applying the wage schedule that applies to 

Chicago for that one. 

22 

I won't belabor the point, the regulatory criteria on this, but it's based on distance. St. Joseph 

County is in Northern Indiana, and Lake County, looking at the first map, is the dark green, 

where the Naval Station Great Lakes is. That's the closest survey county to St. Joseph. 

Now, in terms of distance on Attachment 2, there are 134 miles to the Naval 

Station Great Lakes. The next closest is Selfridge Air National Guard Base in Michigan. That's 

228 miles away. 

CHAIR NELSON: Do we need discussion on this one? 

I see a mind twirling here. 

MR. LOEB: Just— 

CHAIR NELSON: Okay. 

MS. SIMON: I don't have any objection. 

CHAIR NELSON: Do we have a consensus? 

MR. LYNCH: No objections. 

MR. SHORE: No objections. 

CHAIR NELSON: We have a consensus on this one. We can move forward. 

Excellent. 

MR. O'CONNER: I have a question. I'm new at this. I'm not sure of the process. 

Is there a point where we can discuss more current issues that haven't been addressed yet that 

aren't in this folder? I want to talk about two specific wage areas that have been combined at 

some point. 

MR. ALLEN: Well, the process to add a new item to the agenda is really just to 

send it to the Chair a week ahead of time so that OPM staff can support the Chair and socialize 

the documents with everybody, and then we can discuss it at the next meeting. We are meeting 

23 

the third Thursday of every month. The Chair must get the document a week ahead of time, a 

week before the next meeting. Then it will be put on the agenda. But if it's like a general question 

that's not really something you want to put on the agenda, I'd say fire away. 

MR. O'CONNER: My concern is that my federal experience, 40 years of it, is 

Portsmouth, New Hampshire, Portsmouth Naval Shipyard. I got a call Tuesday that the wage 

survey had begun, and new to the process, they've incorporated the Portsmouth wage area into 

the Portland, Maine, wage area. Is that a fact? 

MR. FENDT: So remember earlier, Mark was discussing about when a wage area 

employment is under 100, so that was one of the most recent ones where the smaller wage area 

went into a larger wage area. 

MR. O'CONNER: We have 3,000 Federal Wage-graded employees at the 

shipyard alone. 

MR. FENDT: Let me make sure we're saying the same thing. 

MR. O'CONNER: Okay. 

MR. FENDT: If it's something we need to look into after, I just want to make 

sure— 

MR. O'CONNER: But the survey is ongoing right now. We're including industries 

that are north of Portland, Maine, and we're in New Hampshire, closer to Boston than we are to 

Portland. Our economy is more in line with Boston than Portland too. 

MR. FENDT: Okay. We can definitely make sure we're saying the same thing 

because obviously you're saying that, and we're not talking about the same thing. 

MR. O'CONNER: Okay. 

CHAIR NELSON: So, definitely, this is something you raised. Let's put it on the 

24 

agenda. 

MR. O'CONNER: So we can talk about it. 

MR. FENDT: Yes, of course. 

CHAIR NELSON: Excellent. Sounds good. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. Next one, 620-MGT-7. This one is again adding a county to 

a Nonappropriated Fund wage area. This one is recommending adding Lucas County, Ohio, to 

the Macomb, Michigan, wage area. So in layman's terms, it's taking a VA clinic in Toledo and 

applying the Detroit wage schedule. 

If you take a look at the map on this one, you can see it appears to be the best 

choice based again on distance. There's already Ottawa County, Ohio, as part of the Macomb 

wage area. Lucas County is in the red. It's adjacent to Ottawa, and it's closer to Macomb County 

than it is to Montgomery, in green, to the south. So it would be applying the schedule that applies 

to Selfridge Air National Guard Base instead of the one that applies to Wright-Patterson Air 

Force Base. 

CHAIR NELSON: Okay. Consensus? You guys are good with this? 

ATTENDEE: We're good. 

CHAIR NELSON: Good. Let's move on. Excellent. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. Next item is 620-MGT-8, and this one is defining Greene 

County, Missouri, to a Nonappropriated Fund wage area. We are recommending that Greene 

County be defined as an area of application to Pulaski, Arkansas, and again, this is a VA canteen 

service facility, in this case, in Springfield, Missouri, one employee. We took a look at the 

regulatory criteria, and this one is a little bit different in that Greene County is somewhat equal 

distant from two or three other Nonappropriated Fund survey areas. And when the regulatory 

25 

criteria does not give us a clear picture of what to do with this area of application count, we look 

to see if there are any organizational relationships like where does the outpatient clinic report to 

in the way that VA has their structure arranged, and in this case, it is pointing towards having the 

county added to the Pulaski area. 

MR. GARNETT: Why wouldn't you put it up to Fort Leavenworth? 

MR. ALLEN: Because the county has an organizational relationship with 

Washington County, which is in the Pulaski area. 

MS. SIMON: Why not St. Clair? 

MR. ALLEN: Again, just because it has an organizational relationship with 

Washington County, in the Pulaski wage area in Arkansas. 

MR. GARNETT: Is it an outpatient clinic? 

MR. ALLEN: Yeah. It's going to be a small "community-based outpatient clinic." 

There is a certain element of judgment call regarding this. It's 204 miles, according to Google 

Maps, to Fort Leavenworth. It's 207 miles to Little Rock Air Force Base in Pulaski, Arkansas. 

Scott Air Force Base, in the St. Clair wage area, which is further away. So at least in my mind, 

it's either Fort Leavenworth based strictly on distance or it's Little Rock Air Force Base based on 

the organizational relationships that the VA has in that area. 

MS. SIMON: Is that closer to Scott Air Force Base? 

MR. ALLEN: Not according to the road network. 

MR. GARNETT: The road network, maybe not the road network. 

MS. SIMON: It looks like it's closest to Scott. 

MR. ALLEN: It's being measured to Fort Leavenworth, which is further away. 

There are two survey counties in the Leavenworth wage area. 

26 

MS. SIMON: On what page do you have the thing about— 

CHAIR NELSON: Distance? 

MS. SIMON: The distance. 

MR. GARNETT: Attachment 2, page 1. 

MR. ALLEN: It looks like it would be closer to Johnson. That would be the 

closest survey county, but we have a practice of measuring to the survey post installation for 

these things. 

that? 

MS. SIMON: Well, what if we moved to—apply it to St. Clair? Can you live with 

MR. ALLEN: No, because St. Clair is the least justifiable choice of the three. 

MS. SIMON: It's the closest. 

MR. ALLEN: St. Clair? No, St. Clair is— 

ATTENDEE: 248 miles. 

MR. ALLEN: Yeah. Yes, it's 248 miles to St. Clair, 204 miles to Fort 

Leavenworth, if we're measuring Fort Leavenworth. 

MR. GARNETT: St. Clair is in here. 

MS. SIMON: It looks closer to my eye. 

MR. LOEB: I'm not sure. It just came out 2 days ago. 

CHAIR NELSON: Oh, the new app? Just making sure it gets to the actual Air 

Force Base as opposed to just— 

MR. LOEB: Right. I think there are better ways to do it. 

CHAIR NELSON: Technology, though. 

MS. SIMON: Where does it say in here the number of miles to the host activity? 

27 

MR. ALLEN: It's in the attachment. Greene County to Little Rock Air Force Base 

in Pulaski, Arkansas, is 207 miles. It's 248 miles to Scott Air Force Base in St. Clair, Illinois, and 

204 miles to Fort Leavenworth. 

But what I have noticed on this is that Johnson County is the closest survey 

county. We just have to make a choice of whether to define Greene County to the nearest survey 

county versus define it to basically the nearest host installation, taking into consideration the 

organizational relationship for that outpatient clinic, which would be defining it to the Pulaski 

wage area, in Arkansas. 

MR. GARNETT: What's the pay difference between Little Rock and 

Leavenworth? 

MR. ALLEN: I have the wage schedules in the back. 

MR. GARNETT: Attachment 3. Okay. 

MR. ALLEN: Pulaski, this would be NA-2, $9.32. That's Step 1 in Pulaski, $9.51 

in Leavenworth. 

So I'll speak for myself on this one. If you all have a different view on this—

taking it strictly based on distance to a survey area, I would not personally have an objection to 

that, but I need you to say what you think. 

MS. SIMON: Are you okay with Leavenworth? 

MR. ALLEN: Are we okay on that? 

MR. LYNCH: I think—yeah, we're okay with that, Leavenworth. 

MS. SIMON: Okay, Leavenworth. 

MR. ALLEN: So the justification we'll use on this one is going to be that the 

Leavenworth survey area is the closest, and we'll not take into consideration the organizational 

28 

relationship. 

CHAIR NELSON: And with Leavenworth, then we will have consensus? 

[No audible response.] 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. The next one— 

MR. O'CONNER: I have another question. Do you ever consider the local 

economy of the facilities to be affected compared to the possibilities of where they can go, which 

wage area they would fit into? 

MR. ALLEN: The only thing we look at is regulatory criteria. In the grand 

scheme of things, would we look at the impact of federal agencies on the local economy? Only in 

terms of what the regulatory criteria would point to. We're not in the practice of looking—say, if 

there's a base closure in a local wage area and that depresses the federal employment in that area, 

then we'd have to take a look at that because the local activity would not be able to support the 

local wage survey, but at that point, there would be so few employees there that the closure of 

that facility would not have a big effect on the local economy. The people who would be left 

there would be just assigned to a different wage schedule. 

CHAIR NELSON: Does that answer your question? 

MR. ALLEN: We're not really looking at the macroeconomic effects of federal 

employment on the local economy. 

MR. O'CONNER: So combining wage areas, you could conceivably—to some, it 

would depress local economies. 

MR. ALLEN: I doubt that it would have an effect on the broad economy. When 

the wage area is abolished, OPM's regulations put guidance in the operating manual, say that 

wage surveys could continue being done in both wage areas, survey areas, or everything could be 

shifted to a different wage area. It's been done in both ways in the past. It depends on how 

similar the two economies are within basically two metropolitan areas. 

29 

CHAIR NELSON: Shall we move on to the next one? 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. It's my turn to torture some names. 

CHAIR NELSON: Better you than me. 

MR. ALLEN: I may need help, or maybe I don't. 

This is 620-MGT-9. On occasion, the DoD staff will ask us to remove area of 

application counties from wage areas where a county no longer has employment under the 

Nonappropriated Fund system. That goes back to the law that created the Nonappropriated Fund 

part of the Federal Wage System which says that wage areas should only be defined where there 

are employees located. 

So what we're recommending in this case, because DoD has not had employment, 

in a few municipalities in Puerto Rico for a number of years, there's really no need to cover them 

as area of application counties, and those municipalities are Ceiba—did I get that right? 

CHAIR NELSON: Yes. I hope. 

MR. ALLEN: Isabella, Toa Baja, and Vieques, and also recommending that the 

U.S. Virgin Islands of St. Croix, and St. Thomas be removed from the Guaynabo-San Juan NAF 

wage area.  

MS. SIMON: Mayaguez is at— 

MR. ALLEN: The only other thing we're recommending is that Mayaguez, Puerto 

Rico, be defined as an area of application. 

MS. SIMON: It's okay. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. 

30 

CHAIR NELSON: Okay with everyone over there? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIR NELSON: And you did well with the names. 

MR. ALLEN: I have friends who are familiar with that area. 

ATTENDEE: Coworkers. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. Next, 620-MGT-10. OPM received a request from the 

Department of Homeland Security to cover Coast Guard employees in remote areas of Alaska. 

Those are Ketchikan, Kodiak, and Sitka under the Alaska 12 percent remote area differential set-

aside wage schedule. 

This is a schedule practice that OPM has extended over the years as agencies to 

be covered—the Coast Guard is currently using the regular wage schedule. The Management 

members have no objection to adding three Coast Guard locations to the 12 percent remote area 

differential set-aside schedule. 

Attachment 1 provides a letter from DHS and their justification. They went into a 

lot of detail in explaining why the 12 percent differential applies, and it convinced me, so I 

signed the document. 

CHAIR NELSON: It made you want to move to one of these little— 

MS. SIMON: Oh, yeah, right. It would take more than 12 percent. 

CHAIR NELSON: I was reading this one, and this one was—I want to get 

through this one today. I take it, we have consensus on this one? 

ATTENDEE: Yes. 

CHAIR NELSON: Excellent. Thank you. 

MS. SIMON: Let's continue our streak. 

31 

CHAIR NELSON: I'm not sure that's happening, but let's go. We'll give it a try. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. The next one—I actually should not be introducing this one. 

It should be 620-AFGE-1, and I'll turn things over to Jacque. 

MS. SIMON: This is a reintroduction of a proposal that was approved in October 

of 2010 and never brought into being because many factors, and so we are reintroducing a 

proposal that no General Schedule pay locality, except as to RUS., should contain more than one 

Federal Wage System wage area, and that Monroe County, Pennsylvania, be added to the New 

York City wage area. If you can't do it, the right thing for the entire country, do the right thing 

for Monroe Country, Pennsylvania. 

MR. ALLEN: I guess I would just make some comments. I know we don't have 

consensus on this one because it's got a very long history of disagreement on using GS locality 

pay areas to define wage areas. 

The proposal that AFGE has put back on the table is something that was by 

majority vote sent to Director Berry back in October 2010 and then later in 2012 by the 

Committee. 

Monroe County was actually sent to the Acting Director at the time. I think that 

would have been in 2016. 

So, basically, what we're looking at is two OPM Directors and an Acting Director 

declined to adopt those recommendations, which would have been relying on using GS 

locality— 

MS. SIMON: I'll have to correct you, Mark. They didn't decline to adopt it. They 

didn't get around to it. They didn't actively reject it. 

MR. ALLEN: But the fact is it's the same effect. 

32 

MR. SHORE: Well, they can't do anything, right? We kept following up asking if 

there was a decision. As far as I'm aware, we were never told that a decision was ever reached on 

them. 

MS. SIMON: No. Beth Cobert left the building without ever having acted on it. 

MR. ALLEN: That is correct. 

So now they're back on the table. We don't have consensus. 

On the idea that those recommendations that had previously been sent to OPM 

Directors, I guess the only thing I could say is we've been talking— 

CHAIR NELSON: Is it possible that there's any updates that could be provided to 

go with it? 

MS. SIMON: I'll say maybe— 

CHAIR NELSON: I mean, that could be helpful. 

MS. SIMON: —in subsequent meetings, I'll try to get more information. I'm sure 

that we could bring in affected employees to testify. They'd certainly like to be heard on this 

issue. 

history, so— 

CHAIR NELSON: That would be a good idea to at least get some more— 

MS. SIMON: Yeah. 

CHAIR NELSON: —current discussion going with it. It seems like it has a long 

MS. SIMON: Yes. Monroe County is a very, very big issue. It's a terrible 

inequity, and it really affects morale and the overall operation of the base. The white collar 

employees are considered to be New York City for purposes of their local pay differential, and 

hourly workers and the skilled trades are considered to be in Wilkes Barre-Scranton for purposes 

33 

of their local pay differential. You got one employer who is treating the hourly workforce one 

way and the salaried workforce another. They work side by side in the same exact location, 

commuting on the same roads. Everything about their employer is identical, except their 

treatment by the employer, and it's a bad inequity. The kind of work that's done at Tobyhanna 

kind of has to be seen to be believed. It's extremely complex electronics work in a military 

maintenance and manufacturer and repair, very, very complex work, and you've got a situation 

where people are doing relatively—people who are responsible for hundreds of millions of 

dollars' worth of military equipment are making less than people who are doing fairly less—have 

less responsibility, but are paid under a different pay system and so are making a lot more. And 

those kind of inequities are troubling, and it deprives the base in some cases with the amazingly 

skilled electricians can make more money doing clerical work than doing the very skilled 

electronics weapons system repair work. 

Now, there are certainly some people on the other side of the table who suggested, 

"We know what to do. We'll cut the pay of the GS people." Anyway, it's kind of a calling, the 

people who—I know you guys like to use quit rates. The people who do this work at Tobyhanna 

are overwhelmingly—they're veterans themselves. They're very, very committed to the mission, 

and they certainly have very specialized skills that they've chosen to employ in the defense of 

our country, and they just really resent, understandably, being treated as second class citizens at 

their own place of work, which they are. So it's a terrible inequity. 

MR. GARNETT: Can I ask what the Management's version, opposition to it is? 

MR. LYNCH: Well, at this point, I would say since we have a whole new team on 

the Management side, I think we might want to discuss this further— 

MS. SIMON: That would be great. 

34 

MR. LYNCH: In fact, you will notice we have—everybody is new. 

MS. SIMON: Yeah. That would be great. 

MR. LYNCH: So maybe we have additional discussion and see where it takes us. 

MS. SIMON: Yeah. And I do think in the past, I guess it was under George W. 

Bush, the FPRAC Chair actually did a field trip to Tobyhanna to see with his own eyes. I don't 

know if you're interested in that kind of thing, but I'm sure they'd love to have you. It will blow 

your mind. That place just—I mean, I've been to a lot of— 

CHAIR NELSON: You've been there. 

MS. SIMON: But the work they do is amazing. For somebody like me, it's very 

difficult to describe because I have zero technical knowledge, but when you go there, you will 

see. You will be impressed by the complexity of the work they perform and how well— 

CHAIR NELSON: It sounds to me like if we could open up this one a little 

differently with— 

MS. SIMON: Sure. 

CHAIR NELSON: —some updated information. 

MS. SIMON: Sure. 

MR. O'CONNER: I think that's a common theme, not just at Tobyhanna, but that 

sounds like an extreme example. 

CHAIR NELSON: Yeah. 

MR. O'CONNER: It's a common theme across the country. I would think that—

I'd like to be collaborative, and I would think that instead of you folks going off having your 

discussions and making a decision, we should have discussions to get— 

CHAIR NELSON: We could do some working group thing on some of this. 

35 

MS. SIMON: Yeah. 

CHAIR NELSON: Keep the discussion moving. 

MR. O'CONNER: We have perspectives you folks may not and vice versa. If we 

share those, then we can come up with a solution that works for everybody. 

MR. LYNCH: And as we said, the last meeting, early 2017, we have all new 

people, new data and such, so I think we can discuss it a bit more and find out if we can—where 

we stand again. 

MS. SIMON: Okay. That sounds like a great idea. 

CHAIR NELSON: So if you've got any documentation of data to get the thing 

rolling, please feel free to get it in, and we'll see what we can do and get it passed around. 

MS. SIMON: Okay. 

MR. LYNCH: And we can revisit the data as well, Karl's team. 

CHAIR NELSON: Definitely. And we can get everything out the week before 

and share some of this stuff back and forth, and if we need to do a working group off of some of 

it, we can always look at that possibility too. 

MR. LYNCH: Absolutely. 

CHAIR NELSON: Okay. We've gone through everything. Now, my questions are 

back on the Old/New, the first three, where we stand. We stand at—the first one, I know 

definitely we're getting some updated materials for to continue discussion, and the next two, 

then, where are we? 

MS. SIMON: We need some more time on those. 

CHAIR NELSON: Okay. 

MR. SHORE: Yeah. The first one, I will follow up with the issue that Jacque 

36 

pointed out where there seems to be a discrepancy between what the employees have said and 

what Management has said. 

CHAIR NELSON: That's Management follow-up. 

MR. SHORE: I know Management is going to do their follow-up. Myself and 

Tim will follow up with our people and see if we can get some written statements, if we didn't 

already. I can't remember, but something to go along with that as well. 

CHAIR NELSON: And the other two, where are we at with that? 

MR. ALLEN: No consensus on San Antonio. 

I was wondering if we could move ahead with Pitt County, though, because I 

don't really see any alternative for how that one could be— 

MS. SIMON: We're not ready. We're not ready for that. 

CHAIR NELSON: Could we be ready for the next meeting? 

MS. SIMON: I'll check and see where we are on that. 

MR. ALLEN: One other thing I neglected to mention, that is on the Alaska set-

aside schedules. That is not in regulations, so it does not take 6 months to a year to put those 

employees under the differential schedule, so that will happen faster than that. 

CHAIR NELSON: Okay. I don't see that we've got anything else at this meeting 

to cover. 

MR. LYNCH: I think we're good. 

CHAIR NELSON: I think we've tackled a pretty tough agenda and kind of, 

probably, maybe even in record time. 

MS. SIMON: It's all downhill from here. 

CHAIR NELSON: No, no, no. 

[Laughter.] 

CHAIR NELSON: Okay. So we have our next meeting on October 18th, okay? 

37 

Is there a motion for adjournment? 

MR. ALLEN: Second. 

CHAIR NELSON: Second. 

We're adjourned. Thank you 

