 

1 

563rd FPRAC 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management 

Washington, D.C. 

Thursday, May 19, 2011 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
  Management Members 
  MARK ALLEN, Office of Personnel Management 
  STEVEN RUMBLE, Department of Defense 
  CARLOS SAAVEDRA, Department of Navy 
  BARBARA WALKER, Department of Army 
  THURSTAN HUNTER, Department of Veterans Affairs 
 
  Labor Members 
  WILLIAM FENAUGHTY, Metals Trade Department 
  EDWARD ELDER, NAGE 
  JACQUELINE SIMON, AFGE 
  STEVE FISHER, ACT 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors: 
  MADELINE GONZALEZ, Office of Personnel Management 
  TERRI AVONDET, Office of Personnel Management 
  JEROME MIKOWICZ, Office of Personnel Management 
  CHRIS WALLACE, Office of Personnel Management 
  KATIE PENNELL, Office of Personnel Management 
  JIM BRADY, Department of Defense 
  CRAIG JERABEK, Department of Defense 
  H.L. "Hank" ROVAN, Department of Defense 
  DAWNA POWELL, Department of Defense 
  SETH SHULMAN, Department of Defense 
  KARL FENDT, Department of Defense 
  DIANA WILLIAMS, AF 
  MARY AUGSBURGER, AF 
  TAMMY VANKEUREN, AF 
  ANRIKA CORBIN, Department of Veterans Affairs 
  JENNIFER McCLOSKEY, Senator Bob Casey's Office 
  
Recording Secretary:  VANNESSA BROWN 
  [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.] 

 

 

2 

C O N T E N T S 

 
 
I.    Opening/Announcements 
      • Introductions......................................3 
      • Guest Speaker:  Jennifer McCloskey, representing 
        Office of Senator Bob Casey........................5 
      • Announcements 
        - Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee 
          Annual Summary, 2010, 563-OC-1...................9 
        - 563-OC-3........................................25 
        - Newspaper Article about Tobyhanna Army Depot 
          from the Pocono Record, 563-OC-2..............29 
        - Status Report on FPRAC Recommendation on 
          557-AFGE-1......................................29 
 
II.   Review of the Minutes of the 562nd Meeting..........29 
 
III.  Old Business 
      • Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2.........30 
      • Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns 
        - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on  
          Survey Issues Work Group, 561-OC-1..............30 
      • Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal 
        Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1.....30 
      • Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 
        Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2..........30 
 
 

•-•-• 

 

 

3 

P R O C E E D I N G S 

MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 
MR. RUMBLE:  Steven Rumble with Department of Defense. 
MR. SAAVEDRA:  Carlos Saavedra, Department of the Navy. 
MS. WALKER:  Barbara Walker, Army. 
MR. HUNTER:  Thurstan Hunter, Department of Veterans 

 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone.  I think 
everybody maybe who is going to be here is here.  So welcome, 
everyone, to this 563rd meeting of FPRAC.  Why don't we go around 
and introduce ourselves, as always.  My name is Sheldon Friedman. 
 I'm the Chairman of FPRAC. 
 
 
 
 
 
Affairs. 
 
name tag. 
 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  Ah, yes.  Bill Fenaughty.  I'm with 
NFFE.  I'm going to be replacing Dennis on this committee.  We 
sent a letter to Berry -- rather Ronald Ault did send a letter to 
Berry.  I don't know if you people will get a copy.  I don't know 
if Sheldon did or not, but it's in the mix, so at least don't 
call me "Dennis." 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Bill?  We got to make you a new 

[Laughter.] 

 

 

4 

MS. SIMON:  Jackie Simon, AFGE. 
MR. ELDER:  Edward Elder, NAGE. 
MR. FISHER:  Steve Fisher, ACT. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you all, and then let's go 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  Jerry Mikowicz, OPM. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 
MS. AVONDET:  Terri Avondet, OPM. 
MS. AUGSBURGER:  Mary Augsburger, Air Force. 
MS. CORBIN:  Anrika Corbin, Department of Veterans 

 
 
 
 
around the rest of the room as well. 
 
 
 
 
 
Affairs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

MR. FENDT:  Karl Fendt, Department of Defense. 
MR. ROVAN:  Hank Rovan, Department of Defense. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Seth Shulman, Department of Defense. 
MS. POWELL:  Donna Powell, Department of Defense. 
MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, Department of Defense. 
MR. JERABEK:  Craig Jerabek, DOD. 
MS. VANKEUREN:  Tammy Vankeuren, Air Force. 
MS. WILLIAMS:  Diana Williams, Air Force. 
MS. BROWN:  Vannessa Brown, OPM. 
MR. WALLACE:  Chris Wallace, OPM. 

 

 

5 

Katie, why don't I ask you to introduce our guest 

MS. PENNELL:  Jennifer McCloskey of Senator Casey's 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So the floor is yours. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Welcome, everyone. 
We have a guest speaker this morning, not on the agenda 

MS. PENNELL:  Katie Pennell, OPM. 
MS. McCLOSKEY:  Jennifer McCloskey, Office of Senator 

 
 
Bob Casey. 
 
 
I'm sorry to say, rather a late addition. 
 
speaker. 
 
office, and I believe she has a letter from the Senator that she 
would like to read this morning. 
 
MS. McCLOSKEY:  Thank you very much.  Well, thank you all 
 
for having me.  As Katie said, my name is Jennifer.  I work for 
Senator Casey.  The Senator is sorry that he wasn't able to be 
here himself to give some comments, but he asked me to come and 
read this letter on his behalf, so without further ado. 
 

Dear Chairman Friedman:  Today the Federal Prevailing Rate 
Advisory Committee (FPRAC) will discuss a recent 
recommendation from the Office of Personnel Management to 
delay the final decision on the October 21st, 2011, 

 

 

 

 

6 

recommendation regarding changes to the Federal Wage System 
wage area boundaries. 
As FPRAC evaluates this recommendation, I would like to 
communicate the concerns I have with OPM's position on this 
issue and encourage the committee to move forward quickly 
and with the understanding that thousands of workers' 
livelihoods are tied to your decisions.  I was encouraged by 
the October 21st, 2010, recommendation issued by FPRAC, 
which reflected a passage of a motion to disallow Federal 
Wage System wage areas to split General Schedule locality 
pay areas. 
The consequence of this recommendation would mean the end of 
a pay disparity at Tobyhanna Army Depot between the General 
Schedule employees who are included in the more generous New 
York labor market locality pay system and the Federal Wage 
System employees who are not.  As you know, this scenario 
has produced instability in the workforce by dampening 
morale among affected employees who feel that they are being 
treated unequally with no justification. 

     I was further encouraged by correspondence I received from 
you in November 2010 which explained that the proposal was 

 

7 

accepted and transmitted to the OPM Director John Berry for 
final approval.  Six months later, no such decision has been 
reached.  Instead, OPM has determined that further study is 
required. 
While I can appreciate the need to examine the impact of a 
change that impacts the Federal Wage System, I cannot 
understand the six months it has taken OPM to initiate a 
reexamination with your committee.  This delay is made even 
worse by the additional delay that OPM has suggested by 
tying implementation to the Federal pay freeze.  OPM is not 
required to hold off implementation until 2013.  It has 
chosen to do so.  While it does, thousands of Pennsylvanians 
await fair pay. 
If FPRAC agrees that further study is necessary, I ask that 
you move quickly to answer the outstanding questions, so 
that OPM can make a final decision and move quickly to 
implement the recommendations.  In addition, I ask that your 
committee provide clear guidance on the process of review 
and timeline to add greater transparency to this issue. 

Thank you for your consideration.  Sincerely, Robert P. 
Casey Jr. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8 

Any questions or comments? 
MS. SIMON:  Yes.  Hi.  I'm Jackie Simon from AFGE. 
MS. McCLOSKEY:  Hi. 
MS. SIMON:  I actually had an opportunity to talk to 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you, Ms. McCloskey.  We'll 
 
make sure that the members of the committee get copies of this 
letter, which I was just given. 
 
 
 
 
the Senator last night about this letter -- 
 
MS. McCLOSKEY:  Okay. 
 
MS. SIMON:  -- and we appreciate it greatly.  I think 
it accurately reflects the views of AFGE members in Pennsylvania 
particularly and Monroe County and Tobyhanna, and when the 
committee begins to discuss Director Berry's proposed way of 
dealing with this issue, we'll make some proposals that are 
consistent with what Senator Casey has suggested. 
 
issue, and we're certainly not going to let OPM get away with 
this.  Thanks. 
 
 
 

And we very, very much appreciate your support on this 

MS. McCLOSKEY:  Anything else? 
[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you for your time. 

 

 

9 

MS. McCLOSKEY:  Thank you for your attention, and we 

 
really appreciate having the opportunity, and you were very 
gracious to extend the invitation to us, so thank you. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We're glad to have you. 
 
 
So moving on in our agenda, we have several documents 
that were e-mailed to the members but after the agenda, three 
pieces; in fact, one which I guess you only got this morning, a 
letter from Congressman Runyan, two previous ones from OPM, one 
dealing with the Director's resolution of the recommendation that 
we made back in October by majority vote that was also just 
discussed by the representative from Senator Casey's office, 
another on operating procedures for FPRAC going forward during 
the period of the current pay freeze. 
 
people ahead of time, you had a chance to review them.  Is that 
correct? 
 
 
questions? 
 
principles and/or the statement from the -- 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And is there any discussion, 

I trust in the case of the two pieces that were sent to 

MS. SIMON:  We're discussing now the operating 

 

 

10 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We can take them in -- I guess it 

MS. SIMON:  Okay.  I think we need to have a Labor 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  I believe we have the small 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  See you when you get back. 
[Labor caucus held off the record.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  We are back in session, 

 
would make sense to take them in order, so why don't we start 
with 563-OPM-1. 
 
caucus. 
 
Pendleton Room. 
 
 
 
 
everyone.  We were discussing 563-OPM-1.  Are there any questions 
or discussion about that? 
 
like to have -- we'd like to have more involvement in this 
analysis, and just as important as our involvement, we would 
actually like the Chairman as a neutral to be extremely involved 
in directing and participating in the analysis. 
 
And I think we had a -- when the proposal was passed, 
we had a very detailed statement of dissent from DOD.  I think 
the OPM staff person who is probably going to be charged with 

MS. SIMON:  What we talked about just now is that we'd 

 

 

11 

So, you know, we'd also prefer something earlier than 

this certainly never was shy about his bias and objections to the 
proposal, and so just in order that the analysis reflect, I 
think, sort of the hand of a neutral and make sure that it really 
is an objective analysis, we'd like to be involved. 
 
We understand that the analysis would come to FPRAC 
prior to its going to the Director, but we'd like to be more 
involved in the actual formulation of the report of the analysis 
-- and the analysis than merely sort of seeing it, you know, 
prior to the Director receiving it. 
 
the end of 2011, but, you know, be that as it may, the more 
important part is not to leave this important work only to one 
side because it's clearly -- I don't think there's any question 
that there's bias on both sides and probably extremely valuable 
for our taxpayers and public to have a neutral overseeing the 
work. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, I guess we could communicate 
that to the Director, we can pass that suggestion on to him.  I 
guess the only observation I would have is it does seem to be 
desirable rather than to -- if you assume that trying to find 
some Labor/Management consensus is a good idea on this issue, if 

 

 

12 

MS. SIMON:  I mean, it can also even -- 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- wait for a report that is 

MS. SIMON:  Exactly. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  But all we could do is suggest 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- writing, it seems to me that's a 

that can be done in the course of the actual report -- 
 
 
good thing, rather than to -- 
 
 
debated again here. 
 
 
that.  I don't know if anyone on Management side is in kind of -- 
MR. ALLEN:  What I would say is that the committee will 
 
continue to meet on a monthly basis.  We have working group 
meetings that will continue to take place, generally following 
the full FPRAC meetings, and those working group meetings could 
serve as an opportunity for any member on the committee to inform 
OPM staff about what they believe should go into the report, so 
that there's really some pre-decisional involvement before 
something comes back to the committee. , At this point, the 
Director is asking for an idea of everything that would happen 
under AFGE’s proposal. 
 

If there are unintended consequences that might occur 

 

 

13 

that nobody has thought about yet, then we really do have to take 
a look at how the AFGE proposal could be implemented, and he 
needs to get every viewpoint in a kind of cohesive written 
statement. 
 
The OPM staff has already started to consider the 
framework for a study like this, but we don't have anything 
concrete yet, so I think it's a good idea that you've raised your 
opinion now. 
 
MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  I think that, you know, what you 
just said is exactly consistent with what I'm saying, except 
perhaps in the details. 
 
I don't believe that a report written exclusively by 
OPM will have every viewpoint, and in order to ensure that, I 
think that people from both sides of the table need to be 
involved.  And I think the process needs to be overseen by a 
neutral. 
 
Like I said, we can't pretend in this room that there 
isn't a strong bias in favor of the proposal on this side of the 
table and an equally strong bias in opposition to the proposal on 
that side of the table, and to have only one side of the table 
preparing the analysis for the ultimate decision-maker just 

 

 

14 

And, you know, we have a neutral.  We have a neutral.  

doesn't seem fair or right to me. 
 
I don't know.  I mean, I can't give you assignments.  I'm just 
proposing this, that the participation of the Chair in this 
analysis because, you know, I'm not sure any of the unions here, 
given what's going on in Congress right now, have the resources 
to devote to this over the next many months the way OPM does. 
 
So, out of necessity, we would rely upon OPM to do a 
lot of the work, but we want to be involved.  We want to be 
involved in the writing of the analysis, and we want not merely 
so-called "pre-decisional input," which is "Thank you so much for 
your views.  We've already been instructed here, and we'll keep 
on going," if we wanted something more substantial than that. 
 
MR. RUMBLE:  I appreciate the opinion, but it appears 
that the Director has directed OPM staff to conduct this stuff. 
 
MS. SIMON:  You're absolutely right. 
 
MR. RUMBLE:  And saying that -- and I get -- and again, 
I appreciate the neutrality of the Chairperson, but serving in a 
neutral way and directing the group, I don't see that the 
Chairperson would be in a position to direct or to try to 
influence the outcome in any way other than just to ensure that 

 

 

15 

The analysis will be what it is.  It may serve -- 
MS. SIMON:  Well, I don't want the Chair to influence 

everyone perhaps is able to speak their mind.  And the final 
outcome is still OPM's in the way the report, the analysis, 
whatever the outcome is, is a frank result of the analysis, and 
it doesn't -- I guess what I'm saying is I don't want to go into 
this thinking that the Chairperson will have some influence in 
swaying the outcome of the analysis. 
 
 
the analysis either. 
 
I also think OPM is clearly not objective in this, on 
this issue.  You know, the staff of OPM has been a very, very, 
very fierce and active agent trying to kill this proposal, and so 
it's like, "Okay, fine.  You know, we get that.  You know, 
everybody's got a perspective."  I don't like to pretend.  You 
know, I don't want to participate in a pretense that OPM is 
somehow neutral.  OPM is not a neutral. 
MR. RUMBLE:  But again -- 
 
MS. SIMON:  And -- well, I hear what you say about the 
 
fact that this is already an assignment, but, you know, I mean, 
it's not the word of God.  It's something that we could go back 
to Director Berry. 

 

 

16 

MR. RUMBLE:  Because, again, the Director is not 

MR. RUMBLE:  And I'm not speaking against a 

MS. SIMON:  No.  Right now -- 
MR. RUMBLE:  I mean, the Director is directing OPM -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- we're looking at -- 
MR. RUMBLE:  -- to do this. 
MS. SIMON:  -- something where the director has -- has 

 
directing FPRAC to do this. 
 
 
 
 
 
asked his staff to do this, which is, you know, certainly his 
business, but we'd like to go back to the Director and propose 
that he revise his assignment and ask for a more comprehensive -- 
 
collaborative effort, but I just hope that the expectation is not 
that the Chairperson is going to somehow push OPM in one 
direction or the other. 
 
know, you know, here we are talking about the Chairman, and he's 
standing right here. 
[Laughter.] 
 
 
MS. SIMON:  My knowledge of the Chairman's background 
is that he's a highly accomplished researcher and very 
experienced in labor economics, and we'll have a better report 

MS. SIMON:  I just think that, you know, as far as I 

 

 

17 

MR. ELDER:  And to build on what you were saying, 

for his involvement, and he brings a lot to the table in terms of 
knowledge and experience in this field.  And you know, why not? 
 
Jackie, I mean, to the extent that the Director wants to address 
a lot of these things, elements that he lists here, including 
preventing unintended consequences and working out exactly how 
we're going to implement the new wage areas in terms of surveys 
and the like, I would think that labor could provide some useful 
input and useful proposals as far as addressing a lot of these 
issues, and we could help spot any unintended consequences or 
complications that might arise as a result of these changes. 
 
of this, it would help to have someone help coordinate that, that 
effort or participation. 
 
would argue in favor of our proposal. 
 
Director's call, it seems to me there are two ways we could 
proceed.  If there's a third way I haven't thought of, I'm sure 
someone will point it out to me. 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, since this is, of course, the 

And as far as the Chairman's being -- his role in all 

So I think both of those elements, both of those facts 

One is, Jackie, we could try to communicate your and 

 

 

18 

MS. SIMON:  How about both? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, both.  We could certainly 

the other Labor representatives' desire to have full 
participation not just in reviewing the results of this report 
when it's brought back to FPRAC, but to be fully part of the 
process of its research and writing in some way.  We could 
communicate that request to the Director, or perhaps the Labor 
representatives would want to contact the Director about that 
themselves and communicate that.  We could do it either way, it 
seems to me. 
 
 
report that this was the conversation we had at the FPRAC 
meeting, this is what the Labor folks requested, and would he 
accept that as a friendly amendment to his decision on this 
matter, and then see what he says.  Does that seem like a 
reasonable way to leave this for the moment? 
 
MS. SIMON:  Yeah. 
 
MR. RUMBLE:  Would you anticipate that that would be 
phrased as the Labor members represent recommendation for the 
FPRAC's recommendation? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Actually, I guess hearing from the 
 
Management side -- I don't want to misstate it, so let me know if 

 

 

19 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  That's a good idea. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
MS. SIMON:  Are you -- what is Management saying?  Mark 

I get it right -- is that in general, the Management side would 
welcome Labor's participation at an earlier stage than when the 
report comes back to FPRAC.  Is that correct? 
Maybe we need to reduce this to writing and make sure 
 
we're all comfortable with it before we send it to the Director 
or --  
 
 
 
is okay with that idea? 
 
already have a framework of committee meetings and work group 
meetings at which we could receive input from every member of the 
committee on this review.  I don't think that it would be a good 
idea for us just to cloister ourselves away on the OPM staff and 
seven months from now put a big binder on the table for everybody 
to look at.  So I think we are probably in agreement that 
everybody should be involved in some way in the process. 
 
But on the other hand -- and we've seen this from other 
working groups that we've had -- somebody needs to take the first 
step, and generally that's to take a first step that involves 

MR. ALLEN:  I guess what I'm saying is that we sort of 

 

 

20 

looking at technical information that only OPM staff would have 
access to and only the DOD technical staff on the Wage and Salary 
Division would have access to.  That would be kind of a starting 
point for developing -- 
MS. SIMON:  I understand all -- 
 
MR. ALLEN:  -- a bigger document. 
 
 
MS. SIMON:  -- of that.  I'm thinking just frankly, you 
know, when we're looking at some of these items on the list, and 
of course, the devil is in the detail, so what kinds of 
assumptions are made in terms of what, you know -- who would go 
where and what they'd be paid, you know, after are going to be 
crucial. 
 
different sets of assumptions.  I think that that's the kind of 
input I want to have. 
 
I don't want to only create worst-case-scenario, you 
know, assumptions, and I think that, you know, an opponent of 
this proposal, I'd be very tempted to create what I would 
consider worst-case scenarios.  And so that's the kind of thing I 
want to watch out for.  That's the kind of -- you know, that's 
what you can anticipate from my participation, would be an 

And at a minimum, we'll have to run numbers under 

 

 

21 

insistence that, you know, something other than the most costly 
and most illogical and most damaging assumptions are made to make 
the thing look as if it were, you know, the end of western 
civilization.  I don't want that. 
MR. ALLEN:  I think -- 
 
 
MS. SIMON:  And I know that there will be a temptation 
to present the proposal in the worst-possible light, and I don't 
want it only presented to the Director in the worst-possible 
light. 
 
MR. ALLEN:  I think we owe -- as OPM staff, we owe the 
Director the whole picture of how something could be implemented 
-- 
 
 
implementing a change in how the Federal Wage System operates, 
and in order to develop that big picture, we have to have 
everybody involved at some point in how the thing is developed. 
 
generally it's the OPM staff who do that. 
MS. SIMON:  No question about that.  I just -- I think 
 
I've explained my interest.  I want a really fair assessment of 

MS. SIMON:  I agree. 
MR. ALLEN:  If the Director eventually does agree with 

But somebody needs to get the thing started, and 

 

 

22 

MS. SIMON:  I'm okay with that. 
MR. ALLEN:  I would view this as more of a 

the multiple possible ways this could be implemented and a range 
of costs that could be associated with it, not just a 
worst-possible scenario. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Why don't I attempt a short memo to 
 
the Director, we'll run it by everyone, and take it from there.  
Is that a reasonable way that reflects this conversation? 
 
 
clarification of what the Director intended in his statement to 
the committee rather than developing a new policy that might 
differ from what he put in his statement. 
 
 
 
563-OPM-1? 
 
 
is how the pay freeze in general will affect the timing of 
implementation of recommendations from FPRAC.  
 
that FPRAC had made several consensus recommendations to make 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right. 
MS. SIMON:  Up to the Director. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Any other discussion on 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We will move on to 563-OPM-2, which 

MR. ALLEN:  I think this one is actually good news in 

 

 

23 

changes under OPM's existing regulatory criteria for defining 
wage areas and of abolishing wage areas when they had fallen too 
low in employment to be sustained.  We have the okay to go ahead 
through the regulatory process with de minimis changes as long as 
they're not changing the general way that the Federal Wage System 
operates under its existing rules. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any discussion of this one? 
 
MS. SIMON:  Well, needless to say, there's a lot to say 
about this, but FPRAC doesn't have the ability to affect anything 
associated with this.  It's shameful.  You know, we'll have to 
deal with it in a different realm. 
 
paper.  I guess it's 563-OC-3, the letter to Director Berry from 
Congressman Runyan of New Jersey.  He has requested that we 
actually read it into the record. 
 
What I thought I would do to save the time of the 
committee is, with everyone's permission, we will have the 
transcriptionist, if that's a word, type it into the transcript, 
but we wouldn't need to have it read aloud right now.  Is that 
all right? 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  We have a late piece of 

MS. SIMON:  I'd like to have it read aloud. 

 

 

24 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, would you like to -- who 

MS. SIMON:  I'll be the reader. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Go for it. 
MS. SIMON:  Where is the date on this letter? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, Katie, when did we receive 

 
would like to be the reader? 
 
 
 
 
it? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Office of Personnel Management. 
 

MS. PENNELL:  Yesterday afternoon. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yesterday. 
MS. SIMON:  So what was yesterday, the 18th of May? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah. 
MS. SIMON:  2011? 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right. 

MS. SIMON:  Addressed to John Berry, Director, United States 

Dear Director Berry:  I'm writing to express my 
disappointment with your recent statement to the Federal 
Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee, which defers "making a 
decision on the FPRAC recommendation until further 
fact-finding and potential impact is completed." 
As you are aware, the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure 

 

 

25 

process, consolidated McGuire Air Force Base, Fort Dix, and 
Lakehurst Naval Air Station into Joint Base 
McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst.  The Joint Base, now with the United 
States Air Force, is the lead operating service.  It's the 
first of its kind, and all military service branches 
represented are now represented as one facility. 
Additionally, Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst is home to 
Fort Dix Federal Correctional Institution as well as other 
Federal non-DoD agency presence.  JB MDL employs over 40,000 
men and women and is one of the largest employers in New 
Jersey. 
While joint basing at McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst has largely been 
a resounding success, one area which remains a critical 
issue is wage parity for wage grade employees working at the 
base.  Before the three installations were combined, 
employees at McGuire and Fort Dix were paid at the 
Philadelphia wage rate while Lakehurst employees were paid 
at the New York City rate.  After consolidation, this 
discrepancy remained, resulting in employees doing the same 
job on different ends of the Joint Base being paid different 
wages. 

 

 

 

 

26 

My office has been told that approximately 600 Federal 
employees could be affected by this discrepancy.  In 2010, 
the FPRAC and OPM recognized this problem and recommended 
that no (non-RUS) General Schedule locality pay area would 
be subdivided between more than one Federal Wage System wage 
area.  However, since this recommendation was made, OPM has 
failed to implement the recommendation. 
This week, your staff briefed my office about your statement 
on the FPRAC recommendation and concerns about the 
implementation of their recommendation.  It is our 
understanding that OPM is trying to reconcile the FPRAC 
recommendation with President Obama's pay freeze. 
Additionally OPM wants to better understand how the FPRAC 
recommendation should be implemented based on the scale of 
federal workers that would be impacted.  While I appreciate 
your concerns and deliberation, it's troubling that nearly 
one year after the initial FPRAC recommendation, OPM has 
decided to continue to postpone the recommendation with an 
estimated 2013 implementation date- nearly a decade after 
the 2005 BRAC. 
Last week, the House Armed Services Committee passed the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

27 

Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act, which 
included report language that I added, which seeks to 
address this issue.  Specifically the report language states 
the committee directs the Director of the Office of 
Personnel Management, after consultation with the Secretary 
of Defense, to make a timely determination on the FPRAC 
recommendation of October 2010 with respect to Department of 
Defense Federal Wage System employees employed at joint 
military institutions constituted on or before the date of 
enactment whose constituent installations are not all 
located within the same pay locality. 
The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall 
provide a briefing to the Senate and House Committees on 
Armed Services, the Senate Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs, and the House Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform on the actions being taken 
to address the FPRAC recommendation by November 15th, 2011. 
It's my hope based on this report language that OPM will 
implement in a timely (well before 2013) manner the FPRAC 
recommendation, fixing this pay inequity for wage grade DOD 
employees at the Joint Base. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28 

Additionally, I have introduced legislation that seeks 

to address the broader population of all wage grade 
employees (DOD or otherwise) employed at the Joint Base.  We 
look forward to working with OPM on perfecting that 
legislation as it moves forward in the committee process.  
Your staff may contact Joe Heaton at 225-4765 if we can be 
of additional assistance.  Sincerely, Jon Runyan, Member of 
Congress. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So that mostly wraps up our 

 
announcements section of the agenda.  We have final copies of our 
annual report, which everybody has.  There's yet another 
newspaper article about Tobyhanna Army Depot being circulated.  
We've already covered that, the discussion of the Director's 
decision regarding 557-AFGE-1. 
 
meeting, which I believe everyone has.  Are there any further 
edits to the minutes of our last meeting? 
 
 
minutes of our last meeting? 
 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there a consensus to adopt the 

So that brings up the review of the minutes of our last 

[No audible response.] 

 

Is there any discussion of the lock and dam Army Corps 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Nothing right now. 
The work group, we have a meeting shortly after this 

 
the minutes are adopted.  Thank you. 
 
Old business.  I believe the first and third of these 
-- well, is there any discussion of any of these four items now 
that anyone wants to have?  I'll start with Lee County. 
 
 
 
meeting. 
 
of Engineers pay practice at this time? 
 
 
 
could defer that one, too. 
 
anything else? 
 
 
welcome. 
 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Continue to defer that. 
I believe we decided on the South Bend-Mishawaka, we 

So, unless there's any other business item, is there 

 

29 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  It appears there is consensus, so 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  A motion to adjourn would be 

ATTENDEE:  Motion to adjourn. 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Second. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Second that.  We'll adjourn.  Thank 

30 

•-•-• 

 

 
 
you. 
 

 

