 

1 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

 

589th FPRAC 

 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

Thursday, December 19, 2013 

 

 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management 

Washington, D.C. 20415 

 
 

ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Management Members: 
Mark Allen, OPM 
Seth Shulman, DoD 
Luis Lynch, AF 
Pamela Sokol, Army 
 
Labor Members:
Bill Fenaughty, MTD 
J. David Cox, AFGE 
Jacque Simon, AFGE 
Robert Shore, NAGE 
Steven Landis, ACT 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recording Secretaries: 
 
 
 

Mike Eicher, OPM 
Terri Wallace, OPM 

Jeanne Jacobson, Designated Federal Officer, OPM 
Madeline Gonzalez, OPM 
Darlene Freeman, Navy 
Jim Brady, DoD 
Karl Fendt, DoD 
Rebecca Chaves, DoD 
Kermit Howard, DOI 
Crystal Gailes, DOI NPS 
Deborah Blake, DOI NPS 
CAPT William Hanrahan, DOI NPS (via phone) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]

CONTENTS 

2 

Page 

I.    Opening/Announcements 

• Introductions.....................................4
• Announcements.....................................6

- Status of Old Business Items, 589-OC-1 

II.

Review of the Minutes of 588th Meeting..............8

III. Old Business........................................8

a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2

- 2013 Update to Review of Lee County, Virginia,

 586-MGT-1 

b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns

- FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on

Survey Issues Work Group, 560-OC-1 

c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal

Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1

d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI

Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
- 2013 Update to Definition of South Bend-

Mishawaka, IN-MI Metropolitan Statistical 
Area, 586-MGT-2 

e. Letter from the American Federation of Government

Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1

f. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC

Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1

- 2013 Update to Definition of 
Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC Metropolitan Statistical 
Area, 588-MGT-1 

g. Proposal for FPRAC review of the Federal Wage
System Appropriated Fund and Non-Appropriated
Fund Operating Manuals, 575-AFGE-1

h. Suggestion for a research paper on the history

of the Federal Government's prevailing rate
system

i. Review of the Augusta and Portland, ME Federal

Wage System Wage Areas, 578-MGT-1
- Alternate Analysis of the Portland, ME Federal

Wage System Wage Area, 580-MGT-1 

j. Project to update wage area maps
k. Department of the Interior's Special Vessel

Schedules, 585-OPM-1

 

3 

 
 
 

C O N T E N T S 

 
                                                       Page 
 
IV.  New Business.........................................9 
     Department of the Interior's Special Vessel Schedules 
     - CAPT William Hanrahan's Comments on the September 
       FPRAC Meeting Minutes and OPM's Five Pay Options 
       for the RANGER III, 589-OC-2 
 
  

4 

PROCEEDING 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone, and 

welcome to this, our 589th meeting of the Federal 

Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee.  My name is Sheldon 

Friedman, chair of the Committee, and as usual, why don't 

we go around the table and introduce ourselves. 

Let's start with you today, Mark. 

MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 

MR. SHULMAN: Seth Shulman, Department of Defense. 

MR. LYNCH:  Luis Lynch, Air Force. 

MS. SOKOL:  Pamela Sokol, Department of Army. 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Bill Fenaughty, Metal Trades 

Department and NFFE. 

MR. COX:  J. David Cox, the American Federation 

of Government Employees. 

MS. SIMON:  Jacque Simon, American Federation of 

Government Employees. 

MR. LANDIS:  Steve Landis, Association of 

Civilian Technicians. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And if the folks sitting 

around the edge of the room would introduce themselves 

also, please? 

 

5 

 

 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 

MS. JACOBSON:  Jeanne Jacobson, OPM.  I am the 

Designated Federal Officer. 

 

 

MS. FREEMAN:  Darlene Freeman with the Navy. 

MS. BLAKE:  Deborah Blake, Department of 

Interior, National Park Service. 

 

MS. GAILES:  Crystal Gailes, Department of 

Interior, National Park Service. 

 

MR. HOWARD:  Kermit Howard, Department of 

Interior. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, DoD. 

MS. CHAVES:  Becky Chaves, DoD. 

MR. FENDT: Karl Fendt, DoD. 

MR. EICHER:  Mike Eicher, OPM. 

MS. WALLACE:  Terri Wallace, OPM. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And, Captain Hanrahan, I 

believe you're on the phone? 

 

 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  Yes, I'm here. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Why don't you 

introduce yourself for the recorder? 

 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  Captain William Hanrahan, 

National Park Service. 

 

6 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you. 

Robert, you just arrived, why don't you say hi to 

MR. SHORE:  Hi.  Robert Shore with NAGE. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, welcome, 

 

 

us. 

 

 

everyone. 

 

Just one quick point for folks sitting around the 

edge of the room –- when you are speaking, please come up 

to the table and sit in front of a microphone so that our 

recorder will capture your remarks better.  We had a little 

trouble last time hearing some people on the recording. 

 

So the one announcement I have is we've 

circulated a document, 589-OC-1, in an effort to clean up 

our Old Business agenda.  If people could take a quick look 

at that document, what we are essentially proposing to do 

is remove several items that could just be handled by 

announcement.  If we ever need to get those items back on 

the agenda, please just let me know. 

 

If there's no objection, that's what we'll do 

with our next agenda.  Does anybody have a problem with 

that? 

 

MS. SIMON:  I don't have a problem with that, but 

 

7 

we are anticipating an end to the pay freeze as of January 

1st, 2014, at which point we want to talk about expediting 

item (e), which is really part of another proposal that was 

approved by FPRAC in October of 2010. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, (e) is not one that we 

are proposing to move off the agenda, anyway, so -- 

 

MS. SIMON:  Well, we want to move that off the 

agenda by seeing it become a new regulation. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  But at the moment keep 

it there or -- 

 

MS. SIMON:  Keep it there, but I just want -- you 

know, the reason for its languishing all this time along 

with the other proposals has ostensibly been the pay 

freeze.  As of January 1st, that reason/excuse will no 

longer exist, so we want to make sure that that issue 

starts to move. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, I hear you. 

Any other thoughts on our proposed slight clean-

up of our Old Business items? 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So we will implement that on 

our agenda for next month. 

 

8 

 

Next up is the review of the minutes of the 

previous meeting, the 588th meeting.  Does anyone have any 

further changes to the transcript, beyond those we've 

already received from you? 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, is there any 

objection to adopting the transcript of our previous 

meeting? 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing no objection, the 

transcript is adopted. 

 

That brings up Old Business.  We have quite a 

list.  Is there any item that people would like to address 

today? 

 

The last item (k) is something that we are going 

to get to under New Business. 

 

Is there any other Old Business item we want to 

go over this morning? 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We are awaiting a couple of 

Working Group reports that will help us move through these 

items.  Hopefully, we will have those early in the New 

 

9 

Year. 

 

Okay.  If there's no objection, we can move on to 

New Business then.  This brings up the Department of the 

Interior Special Vessel Schedules.  We have at this point, 

I believe, five FPRAC documents to consider and a proposal 

from the Department of the Interior, with comments from 

Captain Hanrahan. 

 

The first document is the original DOI proposal.  

It was introduced in our 585th meeting.  We subsequently 

got a list of options from Mark Allen, which I don't think 

has been recirculated, but which everybody has seen. 

 

I asked OPM staff to do a side-by-side analysis 

of the wage implications of the various proposals, and you 

have that as 589-OC-3 -- we'll come back to that in a 

minute -- and we then have comments on that from Captain 

Hanrahan, in 589-OC-4, and supplemental information on the 

Ranger III from DOI NPS, in 589-OC-5. 

 

It might take a couple of minutes to summarize 

and review these items.  I'm hoping we can actually reach 

some recommendation today. 

 

By way of summary, it might be useful to start 

with 589-OC-3, which was an attempt to actually show the 

 

10 

implications for the crew of the Ranger III of the various 

pay proposals.  Option 1 shows what the crew of the Ranger 

III is paid today. 

 

 

We'll skip over Option 2 for now. 

Option 3 is what the DOI NPS proposal would pay 

the crew of the Ranger III. 

 

Option 4 is what would happen if the crew of the 

Ranger III were paid rates based on the Atlantic and Gulf 

Coasts Hopper Dredge Schedules. 

 

Option 5, which unfortunately we don't have rates 

for, would be what the Ranger III would be paid if we found 

appropriate prevailing maritime rates under any of the 

existing maritime schedules under 5 U.S.C. 5348. 

 

Is there anything that anybody would like to add 

at this point to these documents?  

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I am hoping people have had a 

chance to review them.  I have a few questions.  Other 

people may have some questions as well before we get into 

real discussion. 

 

Is there anything you want to add, Mark, at this 

moment? 

 

11 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes, Mr. Chairman. 

The Department of the Interior indicated that 

part of the rationale for their position that the Option 3 

rates would be most appropriate for the whole crew of the 

vessel, is that the rates of pay under the Option 4 

schedule would actually be lower for some of the positions 

than they would be under the Option 3 schedule.  The rate 

for the Master, which is Captain Hanrahan's rate, would be 

higher under Option 4 than it would be under Step 5 of 

Option 3, but the rate of pay for the 3rd Assistant 

Engineer -- I think that's the one that the Department of 

the Interior wanted to highlight -- would be higher under 

Option 3 by more than $4 an hour than it would be under 

Option 4.  I think this is new information that we didn't 

have available to us to look at last time around. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So we want to ask both DOI 

and Captain Hanrahan if they have any comments before we 

get into discussion. 

 

I have a few questions myself.  I was curious 

about the question of the appropriate step when a change in 

a set-aside schedule is initially implemented.  Is there 

anything in regulation that specifies how that would be 

 

12 

handled? 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes.  Pay administration regulations 

require that an employee have a certain amount in time in 

grade.  That doesn't count for multiple steps.  They just 

get one step at a time, and then they have to meet the 

requirement for time in grade to get the next step. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  But if there is a change in 

schedule, if there was a schedule and it was decided it was 

no longer the appropriate schedule and if it didn't have 

steps earlier, which was the case in the instance at hand, 

how would that be interpreted?  Does the regulation require 

that people in effect not get to carry with them all their 

years of service? 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes.  There is what is known as an 

equivalent increase.  Somebody doesn't get multiple steps 

for their time in service. 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  They move to the next step, the 

next highest step upon moving to the new system. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So thank you for 

educating me -- this may have been completely clear to 

everyone in the room except me, so I -- 

 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  I'd like to make a comment on 

 

13 

that, Mr. Chairman. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Certainly, Captain Hanrahan. 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  I can give an example where a 

person taking on a job on a vessel in fact moved 

immediately to Step 5, and I can give you the name of that 

person if they'd want that. 

 

Also, my comment on the step issue is the vessel 

crew was never in a step program to begin with.  It is a 

fixed rate.  Now, it happens to be equivalent to a Step 3, 

but like a flight of steps, if you only have one step in 

the middle of it, you're not going to go anywhere.  So this 

is a misnomer to try and say you're a Step 3 and now we're 

going to place you in a Step 4.  For me to be in a Step 4 

position with 24 years of Federal service, I think is 

disingenuous, since it only takes 6 years to get to Step 5. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  But I understand you to be 

saying regulations require that, Mark?  Is that -- 

 

MR. ALLEN:  What the proposal actually does is it 

adds steps to the rate progression.  It adds Steps 1 

through 5.  So somebody who comes into a new position on 

the crew would most likely start at Step 1, although it 

could be the option of the Department of the Interior to 

 

14 

start somebody at Step 5, if it's a new employee, but if 

somebody is already in Federal service, there is no ability 

to jump steps to get to a higher step, other than a one-

step increase. 

 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  My comment on that, Mr. Allen, 

I'm not advocating that anybody would come in and move to 

Step 5.  I would advocate that new employees would come in 

at Step 1, but those members on the crew that actually have 

in excess of 6 years of service -- and I did mention that 

in my comments -- many people have 15 years of service, the 

First Officer, the Crane Operator, some of our other 

people.  The Chief Engineer has over 6 years of Federal 

service, and me, I have 24 years of Federal service.  I'm 

just trying to -- my point is if we're going to do this, 

why not recognize the longevity.  Had the schedule been 

correct in the first place, I would have been at Step 5, 17 

years ago.  For me to go -- 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Let me see if I got this 

right, Captain Hanrahan and Mark and the Department of the 

Interior--  my understanding, if I'm reading this 

correctly, is that the Department of the Interior would 

have the option of doing that, but would not be required to 

 

15 

by any recommendation that we might come up with.   

 

MR. ALLEN:  Not exactly.  When somebody has a 

position in the Civil Service, they cannot jump multiple 

steps.  There's a concept called "quality step increase" 

that allows General Schedule employees to move to the next 

step without the required time in grade.  However, Federal 

Wage System employees are not entitled to quality step 

increases.  FWS employees go from one step to another after 

serving a certain amount of time at the previous step. 

 

The step levels are actually, under the Federal 

Wage System, dictated in law for the waiting periods. 

 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  My understanding is that the 

mariners were excluded from those Federal Wage System laws, 

and as I said, I can give you an example on another vessel, 

a DOI vessel in the 071 wage area where a captain was hired 

in at a Step 5. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So anything further on that 

from the Management side? 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So that was one of my 

questions.  I don't know if I better ask any more. 

 

[Laughter.] 

 

16 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  We will do our best to answer them. 

MR. COX:  Mr. Chairman, I'm looking at the 

position of Master that is currently at a rate of $39.23.  

Let’s say we adopted Option 3, the Master position would 

then go to $45.31 an hour, but then as soon as the time in 

grade was processed it would be converted to the $47.04 

rate.  That is what I'm reasonably used to and what I see 

 
done throughout the process, particularly when there is a 

change like this.  People don't always like it, but that's 

what I am used to seeing. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  I think it would be 

helpful if we -- I did ask the staff here to try to make a 

comparison with the Maritime Schedules, and that turned out 

to be not such an easy task.  It would be helpful, I think, 

to just have a little explanation of that, what was the 

difficulty in trying to match the Ranger III jobs with the 

Maritime Schedule? 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Basically, what it comes down to is 

we took a look at the Military Sealift Command Schedules 

and they have job titles for several different levels of 

each of the job titles for the crew of the RANGER III.  So 

we'd basically be, say, trying to compare, just as an 

 

17 

example -- a Master rate from several different rates that 

the Military Sealift Command Schedules have, and we don't 

know at what level the Master position would be for the 

RANGER III.  That would be something that the Department of 

the Interior would have to look at if they wanted to 

classify that position in order to then apply a maritime 

schedule. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  All right.  Well, any 

discussion?  We have before us the proposal from DOI NPS, 

which was transmitted through the Management side of FPRAC.  

The question is whether we want to adopt that or not. 

 

We also had a motion from Jacque at our last 

meeting. 

 

MS. GONZALEZ:  We don't have a second for that 

motion. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We didn't have a second?  Oh, 

okay.  So it's not a pending motion.  Okay.  Thank you for 

reminding me of that, so -- 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Mr. Chairman, the Management members 

would like to caucus. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay, sure.  I think we have 

the Small Pendleton Room available. 

 

18 

 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  I would like to have some 

discussion on it, Mr. Chairman, when it's appropriate. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  You want to make a point now?  

Captain Hanrahan, the Management members of the Committee 

are about to break and have a caucus.  Is there something 

you want to tell us before they do that? 

 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  Yes.  If they are trying to 

decide on this, as I said in my comments, I don't have a 

problem with Option 3.  That is essentially what the Park 

Service agreed to in 1969, which is the last recorded Wage 

Board.  I don't have any objections to that. 

 

I would like to see, though, those steps 

implemented to those crew who have the time in grade.  For 

myself -- and I said that in my comments -- I think that I 

should be at least equal to or more than the $48.77.  The 

Captain on the D.L. BILMAIER floating plant, that 

particular position, that is on an uninspected tug.  It 

doesn't carry cargo.  It doesn't carry cargo oil, HAZMAT.  

The captain is not doing the OPA-90 plans, managing, 

administrating the different programs that apply 

specifically to the RANGER III. 

 

Earlier, I had asked if there was going to be an 

 

19 

attorney there at the meeting, and the reason that I asked 

that is because recently the BILMAIER had an accident in 

the St. Mary’s River where another smaller tug that they 

were towing sunk. 

 

In my particular case, operating under the 

authority of the license, on a commerce vessel, I would 

have gone -- ended up before an administrative law judge in 

a hearing.  In that particular case and on all of those 

floating plant structures, because they are not inspected, 

they don't go before a Coast Guard administrative law 

judge. 

 

The Corps conducted an investigation, as they 

have before, but they control that, because those are non-

commerce public vessels, and there is certainly a legal 

distinction in a risk when you have your license out there.  

Anything I do -- for instance, for example, last night, I 

transferred 5,000 gallons of oil onto the RANGER III at the 

shipyard.  If I were to have had a spill and the Coast 

Guard were to find some sort of misconduct, negligence, 

incompetence, or something like that, they would -- I would 

go before an administrative law judge.  They would have a 

hearing on it, and I might get the tankerman's portion 

 

20 

suspended, but when the Coast Guard does that, they also 

pull all of your tickets.  I essentially would be out of a 

job.  That doesn't happen with floating plant vessels. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Captain, if I could just make 

a quick comment.  I hear what you're saying.  This was 

actually going to be one of my questions, and if the 

Management folks are about to go caucus, I think I would 

like to ask it.  It may or may not be relevant to your 

caucus. 

 

So I don't quite understand why when you compare 

the floating plant and the Hopper Dredge Schedules, the 

wages at the top for the Master are so much higher for the 

hopper dredge than the floating plant, and then for the 

crew, it goes the other way.  I don't understand how the 

wage schedules are constructed to come up with that result, 

but be that as it may, that is what they show.  That's what 

the wage schedules show. 

 

Captain, I think you made a very strong case that 

your job duties and presumably those of the other people at 

the top in your vessel are quite different from the 

research vessels, much smaller research vessels that the 

Department of the Interior operates in Michigan and the 

 

21 

Great Lakes areas.  The question is whether there are -- in 

view of that, any pay flexibilities that if, for example, 

we were to recommend the DOI proposal, could the issues you 

are raising with respect to your pay be addressed, and I 

just don't know what the answer is on that.  So I want to 

ask that question. 

 

MR. ALLEN:  There are government-wide rules for 

retention incentives or relocation incentives for Federal 

employees, and those apply equally to Federal Wage System 

positions or prevailing rate positions as they do in the 

General Schedule. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, I think our 

Management folks have been waiting for their caucus, so -- 

 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  One other comment, Mr. Chairman.  

You will note also on the hopper dredges schedules that 

that is a fixed wage on those top three items, and that's 

because they are doing essentially, I'm assuming, an annual 

review of what the private sector is doing, and the 

difference between the hopper dredge and the floating 

plants is the hopper dredges are actually inspected by the 

Coast Guard, and they are also ABS-classed vessels, such as 

the RANGER III.  And there is this distinction between 

 

22 

inspected and non-inspected and commerce versus non-

commerce. 

 

One other comment I might add is you will note in 

my comments that I sent in to you that I would agree to the 

$48.77-per-hour pay if in fact my position description were 

adjusted to reflect those same duties that Captain Modine 

on the BILMAIER might do as an operations person.  I am 

sure Captain Modine is not doing those administrative 

portions of OPA-90 maritime transportation security, 

dangerous cargo, manifest, et cetera, which I do.  If the 

Department of the Interior would want to eliminate that -- 

and I have been trying, obviously, for years to get my 

position description clarified -- I don't think that it's 

appropriate to just throw anything onto my position 

description and certainly oil spill programs for the 

facilities on the island, the gasoline barge that the park 

also operates that I take care of. 

 

I do all of those administrative duties and in 

some cases management inspection duties, ordering all of 

these things for that, that don't even have -- have no -- 

they're not part of my job.  If it's operations, then it 

should be specific to the RANGER III. 

 

23 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Captain, the 

Management folks are going to have a caucus now, so we'll 

let you know when they are back in the room. 

 

 

 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  Okay, good. 

[Management Members caucus off the record.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Management has returned from 

its caucus, and we are back in session.  

 

 

 

Do you want to report on the caucus, Mark? 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes, Mr. Chairman. 

We talked over the only two options currently 

under consideration, hourly rates for Option 3, equivalent 

to the Detroit, Michigan, Floating Plant, other than Hopper 

Dredges Wage Schedule, and the other option is Option 4 

using the Hopper Dredges Schedule for the Atlantic and Gulf 

Coasts. 

 

I would refer to Department of the Interior 

information contained in 589-OC-5. The Department of the 

Interior believes that Option 3 is the most equitable 

solution for the recruitment and retention difficulties 

with the crew of the RANGER III.  It provides substantially 

higher rates of pay than currently authorized. 

 

Following the Governmentwide pay administration 

 

24 

regulations, employees who are currently on the crew would 

go up to Step 4 right away once this Option 3 were 

implemented and -- 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Those who have that amount of 

service? 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes, those employees who have the 

time in grade to go up to Step 4.  So there is a 

substantial pay increase for all of the members of the crew 

of the vessel. I would also like to make a suggestion that 

the Department of the Interior take a more holistic view of 

how it grades and pays its employees operating vessels in 

the Great Lakes to see if they are appropriately graded.  

When compared from one vessel to another they might be able 

to see if there are indeed equity problems between the 

different vessels that the Department of the Interior is 

operating.  But the Management members do believe that 

Option 3 is really the best option for the crew of the 

vessel and for the Department of the Interior. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Just to clarify, would that 

additional suggestion be part of our recommendation to the 

Director here? 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes. 

 

25 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Would we need a draft 

of the wording for that if we were to adopt it right now?  

It would be nice if we could adopt something today.  We 

don't actually have anything in writing that says what you 

just said, I don't think. 

 

MR. ALLEN:  No, we don't have anything in 

writing.  I am just speaking in general terms that it would 

be a good idea for the Department of the Interior to do an 

analysis of how it classifies and grades the vessels that 

it operates in the Great Lakes area. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  And that's sufficient 

for us to act on?  Are there any -- 

 

MR. LANDIS:  Mr. Allen, just real quick, just to 

clarify what you're saying, kind of what you're alluding to 

is the possibility that maybe the position of Master, a  

WS-16, might be a little low?  Is there higher?  I mean, 

how high does that go, the WS pay level?  

 

MR. ALLEN:  Under the Wage Supervisor system, 

there are actually 19 grades that show up on the schedules, 

but they are only classifiable up to a WS-18. 

 

 

MR. LANDIS:  Okay. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So there is room to move up 

 

26 

beyond what is in this table, potentially? 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes. 

MR. LANDIS:  Is that kind of what you're 

suggesting that they consider? 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes.  We are suggesting that the 

Department of the Interior take a close look at how it 

grades the positions, but that should be the responsibility 

of any agency to do that, anyway. 

 

MR. LANDIS:  Okay.  While you guys were out, I 

asked a question of the DOI people that are here, -- the 

Captain had mentioned a few times that he's been requesting 

his position description to be updated, because there's a 

lot of stuff that he does that's not listed on it.  And DOI 

said they're working on that, and they are actually 

contracting out to have that completed. 

 

Perhaps when they do that, that they could then 

readdress this pay issue, because even the Captain was 

saying when he was originally suggesting Option 4, that he 

was totally unaware of the disparity between the top end 

and the low end, and it seems to me he's more on board with 

Option 3 now, considering it helps everyone on the ship 

pretty equally, but it is just that it still grades the 

 

27 

Chief Engineer and the Master lower than ships that are 

smaller, carry less, and have less responsibility. 

 

So I think if we could definitely put in writing 

in our recommendation something to that effect, I think 

that maybe Option 3 would work pretty well. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any further discussion on 

this? 

 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  I have some comments on that.  I 

don't -- 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hang on a second please, 

Captain.  Let me see if any of the members of the Committee 

have any questions first.  

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  No?  Okay.  Go ahead, Captain 

Hanrahan. 

 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  I have been trying to get my 

position description revised for over 12 years.  I have 

documents that clearly show that I asked for that to be 

revised back in 2001 and 2002, because I was working so far 

out of my position description. 

 

So to now say that DOI is going to contract it 

out, this just sounds to me like another delay of game.  

 

28 

They contracted out the Crane Operators, and that came 

back, and that was rejected, saying that it was an 

unclassifiable position.  So I see this as just another 

delay, you know, while these get classified.  These 

positions have been talked about for years.  They have 

surveyed everybody, and what they were doing.  They had us 

put in -- now it's going to go to another contractor.  That 

will take another year or two.  I guess they will just wait 

it out, maybe that is the goal here. 

 

Another comment, if the DOI were to adopt Option 

3, I don't see why they would have objections since the 

people were on a fixed wage.  They weren't a Step 3.  The 

original -- if you go back, and that was submitted in the 

pay statement, the Schaefer Pay Study, that was submitted 

by DOI as part of their original package back in July, 

clearly they put the crew at the top step.  And at that 

time, the top step with the Corps of Engineers was a Step 

3.  It wasn't until 1972 that they came in with the fifth 

step, and then they just ran it across the board.  Again, 

it was the equivalent to a Step 3, even though there were 

five steps. 

 

The original intent was to put the crew at the 

 

29 

top step, because they even recognized back in 1969 and 

1972 that the work that was being performed on the Ranger 

III was far beyond that of the Tug Bilmaier or in that 
 

particular case at the time, the Tug Superior.  The tugs 

push and pull barges around.  That's the extent of their 

particular job. 

 

Once it's on site, that barge spuds down, and a 

supervisor has that barge.  So there's -- 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Captain, we hear your point. 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  There's a difference in the 

licensing. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So you made two points.  One 

is about the delay in getting jobs reviewed in terms of 

classification.  The second is at what step you can be 

slotted, given all your prior years of service. 

 

On that question, the years of service question, 

what we're told here is rules, regulations regarding 

Federal pay administration preclude doing what you're 

asking -- I would agree with you in principle, but the 

regulations, we're told, preclude that. 

 

CAPT HANRAHAN:  They don't always follow those 

rules, Mr. Chairman.  As I said, I can show you.  I can 

 

30 

give you proof that in fact that a person started at  

Step 5. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  On the issue of 

reviewing the classification job rating and so forth, I 

guess what I would say -- and I think we need to get some 

closure on this pretty quickly here -- is that we are as a 

group I think close to a consensus, that we would like to 

recommend to our Director that she recommend to the 

Department of the Interior -- and I’ve just been informed 

that we've got some wording here.  Did you want me to read 

this, Mark?  Do you want to read it? 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  I can read it, Mr. Chairman. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  This would be attached or 

part of our recommendation, if we so decide. 

 

 

Mark? 

MR. ALLEN:  The Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory 

Committee recommends that the Department of the Interior 

examine the classification and job grading for the 

positions it has that are involved in operating vessels in 

the Great Lakes area. 

 

MS. SIMON:  Is that in addition to recommending 

Option 3? 

 

31 

 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes. 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So is that addendum 

agreeable?  Any discussion of that? 

 

MR. LANDIS:  Yes.  Is there any way we could like 

put a time limit on it or something like that? 

 

 

 

purview. 

 

 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

MR. LANDIS:  No, okay.  I didn't think so. 

MR. SHULMAN:  It is not within this group's 

MR. LANDIS:  Yeah.  I didn't think so. 

MR. ALLEN:  We can add an adjective in there. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We could?  What would it be? 

MR. ALLEN:  "Expeditiously," or "as soon as 

feasible." 

 

MR. COX:  Mr. Chairman, is that a motion? Mark, 

do we need a motion? 

 

MR. ALLEN:  If we have consensus, we usually 

don't make motions. 

 

 

MR. COX:  All right, that's fine. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So is there consensus to 

adopt Option 3 as addended, if "addended" is a word?  I 

 

32 

don't know if "addended" is a word or not.  I've never used 

it in Scrabble. 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  I wouldn't challenge it. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, all right.  It 

appears we have consensus to do that. 

 

All right.  Well, thank you very much.  Thank you 

all.  Thank you, Captain.  Thank you, to our friends from 

the Department of the Interior. 

 

MR. ALLEN:  I would like to express my 

appreciation for Captain Hanrahan's testimony and advice to 

the Committee.  It is invaluable for us to hear how this 

vessel operates and the problems that his crew has 

experienced. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I second that completely. 

All right.  Is there any other New Business 

before us today? 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I'm not aware if any other, 

but if there is, let me know. 

 

Well, we should be able to start our long-awaited 

holiday party.  I wish everybody Happy Holidays, Happy New 

Year, and so if there's no objection, we will adjourn. 

 

33 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And hearing none, we are 

adjourned.  Thank you.  See you in the New Year. 

