 

 

1 

573rd FPRAC 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management 

Washington, D.C. 

Thursday, March 15, 2012 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
  Management Members 
  MARK ALLEN, Office of Personnel Management 
  SETH SHULMAN, Department of Defense 
  TAMMY VANKEUREN, Department of Air Force 
  CARLOS SAAVEDRA, Department of Navy 
 
  Labor Members 
  DENNIS PHELPS, IBEW, Metal Trades Department 
  KEITH HILL, AFGE (via telephone) 
  SARAH SUSZCZYK, NAGE 
  STEVEN FISHER, ACT 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors: 
  JEROME MIKOWICZ, Designated Federal Official, 
  Office of Personnel Management 
  MADELINE GONZALEZ, Office of Personnel Management 
  TERRI AVONDET, Office of Personnel Management 
  LINDSEY O'KEEFE, Office of Personnel Management 
  BRITTNEY MANCHESTER, Office of Personnel Management 
  CHRISTOPHER WALLACE, Office of Personnel Management 
  CHRISTOPHER MEDLEY, Office of Personnel Management 
  SEAN REILLY, Office of Management and Budget 

JACQUELINE SIMON, AFGE 

CRAIG JERABEK, Department of Defense 
JIM BRADY, Department of Defense 
DAWNA POWELL, Department of Defense  
  KARL FENDT, Department of Defense 
  CHRIS LYNCH, Department of Defense 

 
 

 

 

2 

CHRIS QUESENBERRY, Department of Defense 
  DARLENE FREEMAN, Department of Air Force 
  KARA WEBSTER, Legislative Assistant for Jon Runyan, 
  a U.S. Representative in Congress for the State of 
  New Jersey 
 
Recording Secretary:  FEBBIE GRAY 
[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.] 

 

3 

 

C O N T E N T S 

 
 
 
                                                        
Page 
 
I.    Opening/Announcements 
      • 
Introductions......................................3 
      • 
Announcements......................................5 
  
II.   Review of the Minutes of 571st and 572nd 
Meetings....8 
 
III.  Old Business 
      a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2 
         - Total Employment in the Eastern Tennessee 
           Wages Area by County, 566-OPM-1 
         - List of FWS Wage Areas with Fewer than 500 
           Employees, 566-OPM-2 
         - Review of Criteria for Defining Appropriated 
           Fund Wage Areas, 545-OC-1 [REPRINT] 
      b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns 
         - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on  
           Survey Issues Work Group, 560-OC-1 
      c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal 
         Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1 
      d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 
         Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2 
      e. Letter from the American Federation of Government 
         Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC 
         review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA 
         from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to 
         the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1 
   
IV.   New Business 
      • Transmission of Report of the Wage Area Definition 
        Study Group, 
570-MGT/LBR-1........................14 
           

 
 

 

 

4 

P R O C E E D I N G S 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone, and 

MR. PHELPS:  Dennis Phelps with IBEW, 

As usual, why don't we go around and introduce 

 
 
welcome to this 573rd meeting of the Federal Prevailing 
Rate Advisory Committee.  My name is Sheldon Friedman, 
Chairman of the Committee. 
 
ourselves, starting this time with Dennis. 
 
representing the Metal Trades Department. 
 
MS. SIMON:  Jacque Simon, AFGE. 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Sara Suszczyk, NAGE. 
 
MR. FISHER:  Steve Fisher, ACT. 
 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I think we have one member on 
the phone? 
 
 
 
Defense. 
 
 
Navy. 

MR. HILL:  Yes.  Keith Hill, AFGE. 
MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Seth Shulman, Department of 

MS. VANKEUREN:  Tammy Vankeuren, Air Force. 
MR. SAAVEDRA:  Carlos Saavedra, Department of the 

 
 

 

 

5 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  Jerry Mikowicz, the Designated 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And if folks sitting around 

 
Federal Official for this meeting. 
 
the sides of the room would also introduce themselves, 
please. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Runyan. 

MS. AVONDET:  Terri Avondet, OPM. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 
MS. FREEMAN:  Darlene Freeman, Air Force. 
MS. POWELL:  Dawna Powell, DoD. 
MR. FENDT:  Karl Fendt, DoD. 
MR. JERABEK:  Craig Jerabek, DoD. 
MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, DoD. 
MR. QUESENBERRY:  Chris Quesenberry, DoD. 
MR. LYNCH:  Chris Lynch, DoD. 
MS. MANCHESTER:  Brittney Manchester, OPM. 
MS. O'KEEFE:  Lindsey O'Keefe, OPM. 
MS. GRAY:  Febbie Gray, OPM. 
MR. REILLY:  Sean Reilly, OMB. 
MR. MEDLEY:  Chris Medley, OPM. 
MS. WEBSTER:  Kara Webster, representing Jon 

 
 

 

 

6 

MR. WALLACE:  Christopher Wallace, OPM. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, thank you. 
Let me just make one very brief announcement.  I 

 
 
 
got a call from Steve Condrey, who is Chairman of the 
Federal Salary Council, asking if FPRAC members would be 
interested in participating in a briefing along with 
members of the Federal Salary Council, on the Congressional 
Budget Office’s recent report on Federal compensation.  It 
struck me that that would be of interest to people, but I 
just want to make sure I was correct in that. 
 
to happen, but I did join him in making that request of 
OPM. 
 
CBO staff? 
 
 
great idea. 
 
Jerry? 
 

MS. SIMON:  Would the briefing be by OPM staff or 

I don't know exactly when or even if it is going 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  By OPM staff. 
MS. SIMON:  Oh, okay.  I think it sounds like a 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Anything you want to add, 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  Yes.  I would say we would like to 

 
 

 

 

7 

But since this would really not be a meeting, it 

do the briefing.  The only question at the moment is that I 
had to touch base with General Counsel, because both the 
Federal Salary Council and Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory 
Committee are FACA entities, Federal Advisory Committee 
Act, and we have certain guidelines about what can be 
discussed or not discussed, because many of you are not 
Federal employees. 
 
would be voluntary participation, it would be sharing of 
information, and OPM staff would lead it, but, certainly, 
Jacque, you have a lot of information.  You have written 
some of your views already -- or AFGE has , so I sent it to 
you, for example, and to Sheldon and others.  Mark, you 
know, we've read it. 
 
So I thought there might be a discussion.  One of 
the things that the CBO report did was that it specifically 
cited the Federal Salary Council and some of the documents 
that were used for the President's Pay Agent that relate to  
methodology, and so there are things that are relevant to 
our committees.  And we would not end up in any policy 
discussion or have any recommendations, but it would be an 

 
 

 

 

8 

So as soon as I can get the final green light, 

exchange of views and information. 
 
Mark and Allan Hearne on my staff will be sending out some 
invitations.  We will probably get a time when a lot of 
people can participate, and Management members of FPRAC 
will also be invited.  And it will be just a discussion, 
and we'll see what we get. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you, Jerry. 
 
Anything else on this? 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Seth, did you want to make an 
announcement, so people don't scoot out of here at the end? 
 
 
it's sitting there on the table, we did bring cake to 
recognize Craig Jerabek's impending retirement, which is at 
the end of this month.  At the end of this meeting, if I 
could just make a couple of -- 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Absolutely. 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  -- you know, clarificatory remarks. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I thought we would mention it 
 
now, so people don't hightail it out of here at the end of 

MR. SHULMAN:  Yes.  Thank you. 
I was going to save it for the end, but since 

 
 

 

 

9 

Let me just quickly dispose of the minutes of the 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing none, that transcript 

the meeting before you hear the further announcement, and, 
of course, our best wishes to Craig in his well-deserved 
retirement. 
 
571st meeting.  We don't have the minutes yet for last 
week's meeting, as you can well imagine, but you do have 
the transcript before you of the 571st.  Are there any 
changes beyond those which we have already received today? 
 
 
is adopted. 
 
opportunity to address FPRAC.  Her name is Kara Webster.  
She is a Legislative Assistant for Representative Jon 
Runyan of New Jersey. 
 
 
understand there is a letter from the Congressman that you 
would like to read into our record, so the floor is yours. 
 
But go to a microphone.  There's one right there. 
MS. WEBSTER:  Okay.  Thank you for allowing me to 
 

We have a visitor today who has requested an 

 
Thank you very much for coming, Kara.  I 

 
 

 

 

10 

This is the letter that we would like to submit 

come today. 
 
into the record on behalf of Congressman Jon Runyan. 
 
 

[Ms. Webster reads letter.] 
Dear Director Berry:  I am writing to encourage 
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to 
correct a pay disparity among workers at Joint 
Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst (JB MDL), which is 
located in my congressional district in New 
Jersey.  Specifically, it is my understanding 
that the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory 
Committee (FPRAC) could be re-voting on their 
earlier 2010 recommendation to move the McGuire 
and Fort Dix employees into the Lakehurst rate.  
It is my hope that the FPRAC reaffirm its 2010 
recommendation and that OPM immediately implement 
it. 
As you are aware, the 2005 Base Realignment and 
Closure process through the Department of Defense 
(DOD) consolidated McGuire Air Force Base, Fort 
Dix, and Lakehurst Naval Air Station as Joint 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

11 

Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst.  The Joint Base for 
the United States Air Force, as its lead 
operating service, is the first of its kind, and 
all military service branches are now represented 
at this one joint facility. 
Additionally, Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst is 
home to Fort Dix Federal Correction Institution 
as well as other Federal non-DoD agencies.  Joint 
Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst employs over 40,000 
men and women, and it is one of the largest 
employers in New Jersey. 
While the Joint Base has largely been a 
resounding success, one area which remains a 
critical issue is wage parity for wage grade 
employees at the base.  Before the three 
installations were combined, employees at McGuire 
and Fort Dix were paid at the Philadelphia wage 
rate, while Lakehurst employees were paid at the 
New York wage rate. 
After consolidation, this discrepancy remained, 
resulting in employees who do the same job but on 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

12 

different ends of the Joint Base being paid 
different wages.  My office has been told that 
approximately 600 Federal employees could be 
affected by this discrepancy. 
General Service employees at Joint Base 
McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst were all transferred into 
the higher New York wage rate previously, so this 
wage rate pay parity is especially unfair with 
the two types of Federal workers being treated 
differently. 
Since I was elected to Congress, I have 
continuously worked on this issue with your 
office as well as House committees.  
Specifically, in May of 2011, I wrote your office 
asking you to implement the 2010 FPRAC 
recommendation that no (non-RUS) General Schedule 
locality pay area would be subdivided between 
more than one Federal Wage System wage area. 
Additionally, on June 6th, 2011, I wrote your 
office along with the entire New Jersey 
congressional delegation asking for this FPRAC 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

13 

recommendation to be implemented 
In addition to working with OPM, I have asked 
Chairman Issa of the House Oversight and 
Government Reform Committee to investigate this 
matter. 
Finally, I successfully included report language 
in the FY 2012 National Defense Authorization Act 
requesting OPM's coordination with DoD in 
ensuring that DoD employees at the Joint Base are 
all paid at the New York city pay rate.  This 
legislation was signed into law by the President 
on December 31st, 2011. 
I am troubled that OPM continues to study, delay, 
and re-vote on implementation of the 2010 FPRAC 
recommendation.  This wage disparity was 
government created and should be government 
remedied.  The employees at the Joint Base have 
waited long enough, and deserve to have their pay 
adjusted to the Lakehurst (New York) rate.  I 
hope that FPRAC reiterates its prior 
recommendation to correct this disparity, and OPM 

 
 

 

 

 

14 

implements this correction as quickly as 
possible. 
Your staff may contact Joe Heaton on my staff at 
202-225-4765 if we can be of any additional 
assistance. 
And, again, thank you for allowing me to read 

I would suggest we move on down to the New 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you.  Thank you very 

 
this letter. 
 
much for your input, and please let the Congressman know we 
appreciate his input very much. 
 
Business section of our agenda, the transmission of the 
report of the Wage Area Definition Study Group, 
570-MGT/LBR-1. 
 
I said at the end of the last meeting that I 
would share a transmittal memo with everyone prior to 
sending the study group report on to Director Berry.  It 
has been brought to my attention that there is a strong 
likelihood that there will be a minority report 
accompanying the study group report, and since the 
Management members have a couple more days to complete that 

 
 

 

 

15 

We were asked by Director Berry in 563-OPM-1 not 

and since it is customary to transmit minority reports with 
majority reports at the same time, I have held off on my 
transmittal memo and will prepare it once I have a minority 
report, if there is one.  So that's the explanation why I 
didn't circulate that after the last meeting. 
 
only to study and analyze the issue at hand, which has 
certainly been done, but also -- and let me just read from 
563-OPM-1.  After considering this analysis,(which we've 
done), the Committee may present its recommendation to 
Director Berry on whether to proceed with a proposal to 
change OPM's regulation.  So, in effect, he has asked us 
whether or not we reaffirm the original recommendation of 
October 2010 to consolidate FWS wage areas, or portions of 
FWS wage areas, that lie within non-RUS General Schedule 
locality pay areas.  And it has been pointed out to me that 
that's one remaining item of business on this matter that 
we ought to finish. 
 
MS. SIMON:  Excuse me.  Is the question in light 
of the findings of the work group, do we want to reaffirm?  
In other words, is the question whether anything that was 

 
 

 

 

16 

MR. PHELPS:  Make a motion to reaffirm the 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  And that is the 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I guess that's one way to 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Basically, we would need a 

found in the course of studying the implementation of the 
proposal, did it change anybody's mind?  Is that the 
question? 
 
look at it. 
 
 
motion to reaffirm or not the original recommendation. 
 
recommendation. 
 
October 2010 -- 
 
MR. PHELPS:  Correct. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- original recommendation. 
 
Is there a second? 
 
MR. FISHER:  I'll second it. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  It's been moved and 
seconded that FPRAC should reaffirm its original October 
2010 recommendation to Director Berry to consolidate  
FWS wage areas, or portions of FWS wage areas, that lie 
within non-RUS General Schedule locality pay areas. 

 
 

 

 

17 

This is an issue that's been studied for a number 

 
Is there any discussion? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  Yes, Mr. Chairman. 
 
Based on our discussions at the last meeting of 
FPRAC last week, the Management members do not agree with 
the original AFGE proposal.  Since it is all a matter of 
public record now, I am not going to belabor the point and 
go through all the reasons why the Management members 
objected to the proposal originally. 
 
of years now.  The position that Director Berry was in 
after the October 2010 recommendation was that there was a 
pay freeze put into effect, and in keeping with the spirit 
of that pay freeze and with the knowledge that implementing 
the FPRAC recommendation would cause some employees to see 
their pay go up, and some employees to see themselves put 
on a lower wage schedule, he asked for an additional study 
to be undertaken, which is this several-hundred-pages long 
document that FPRAC worked cooperatively on over the course 
of 10 meetings. 
We have, I think, what I would call an "honest 
 
disagreement" about whether the recommendation is really 

 
 

 

 

18 

Some of the points that we had made on the 

the soundest concept for administering the prevailing rate 
system under the Prevailing Rate Systems Act. 
 
Management side in the past in terms of our objections were 
that the Federal Wage System and General Schedule operate 
under different laws and regulations.  They use different 
pay-setting and job-rating methodologies, and the two 
systems are designed to achieve different purposes for 
different groups of Federal employees. 
 
The implementation of the October 2010 FPRAC 
recommendation would have broadly different impacts in 
different parts of the country.  At one level, we have the 
Joint Base, which is now an individual installation.  At 
the Joint Base, I think we are talking about around 800 or 
so employees who would be moved into the New York wage 
area, resulting in some employees being placed on a 
marginally higher wage schedule while others would be put 
on a lower wage schedule. 
 
On another level, the FPRAC recommendation would 
result in paying employees who work in Baltimore according 
to prevailing wage levels in Washington, D.C., and that 

 
 

 

 

19 

Another point that the Management members have 

would affect a few thousand employees.   
 
made is that the Federal Wage System is more 
market-sensitive than the General Schedule with the 
capability of establishing far more local market wage 
surveys enabling more precise measurement, and application 
of market rates than is possible under the current GS 
locality pay system.  The proposal would result in 
increases in pay for some employees, and some employees 
would be placed in lower wage schedules.  At some 
installations, the increased labor costs would range 
anywhere from 15 to 25 percent. 
I have some other points here, but I don't think 
 
we really need to go into those.  I think some of the other 
Management members have some other things they'd like to 
say. 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  Yes, I will add and just reiterate 
some of the observations that we made last week for those 
who were not in the room and did not have a chance to read 
what will be in the public record. 
 

Ultimately, this boils down to a couple of 

 
 

 

 

20 

There's been no business case made for the most 

challenges for the Department of Defense, and I can't speak 
for the Department of Veterans Affairs, which is not 
present this morning, but the impacts to them are the same. 
 
part for any of these decisions, none.  Where the 
Department has faced challenges with attrition or 
recruitment as a result of wages that are below what the 
market bears, we have always used the flexibilities 
available to us in the form of special salary rates, and in 
the circumstances such as what has been described for Joint 
Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, this Committee has always taken 
the opportunity to have discussions about those unique 
situations and make moves as necessary to reorganize and 
relocate organizations into a different wage survey area to 
correct such inequities. 
 
To take a blanket approach such as this where 
there has been, again, no business case need to do so, 
merely increases the Department's outlay to the tune of, as 
I said last week, getting something approaching 
half-a-billion dollars, and the number I said on the record 
last week is accurate.  We looked at it again, and it 

 
 

 

 

21 

So the number will be significant.  There will be 

doesn't include the orphan counties. 
 
a huge impact to the Department, and inevitably, when 
decisions like these are made, there is no resource 
allocation that comes along with them.  So the Department 
has to find a way to pay for it, okay, and when we have to 
find a way to pay for things like this, absent an 
additional resource allocation, one of two things happens. 
 
We have to either -- and this is not a threat, 
this is not a promise, but this is the sort of thing that 
has to be on the table when you talk about a time of 
decreasing resource funding.  You have to decrease the 
number of positions across the Department, or you have to 
eliminate organizations.  And these are some of the very 
serious questions that the Department will be left to 
grapple with if this sort of thing is allowed to go through 
and this change to regulation does in fact wind up being 
enacted. 
 
that this is not an appropriate change to regulation.  As I 
said, we have other means at our disposal to address pay 

So, again, the Department feels very strongly 

 
 

 

 

22 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Anyone on this side of the 

MS. SIMON:  Yes.  I have a letter that is being 

inequities, and we certainly like to avail ourselves of the 
services of this Committee to discuss those unusual 
circumstances where and when it's necessary. 
 
table? 
 
sent to Director Berry and signed jointly by the Labor 
members of FPRAC that I'd like to read into the record. 
 
 
respond to one point that Seth just made regarding the 
projected 10-year cost. 
I think that that's something that is likely in 
 
dispute, but, in any case, I'm just going to go ahead and 
read the letter. 
 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
MS. SIMON:  Before I do so, I just want to 

[Ms. Simon reads letter.] 
Dear Director Berry:  The Department of Defense 
has produced two documents aimed at forestalling 
the implementation of the proposal to consolidate 
Federal Wage System wage areas that lie within a 
single General Schedule locality. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

23 

The first misleadingly entitled "Implementation 
Plan" would represent a radical departure from 
past practice regarding changes in Federal Wage 
System wage area boundaries.  Instead of adding 
counties to existing wage areas and existing wage 
schedules, as has occurred in all past actions 
involving changes to the boundaries of wage 
areas, DoD would require entirely new surveys and 
new schedules for both existing and added 
counties.  Indeed, this plan is essentially a 
poison pill that would undermine the intent of 
the original proposal. 
The second document labeled "Unintended 
Consequences" calls to mind the fabled boy who, 
after murdering his parents, asks for mercy from 
the court because he’s an orphan.  Almost all of 
the negative or unintended consequences about 
which they warn derive from their own flawed 
implementation plan, not from the proposal itself 
or the implementation plan that OPM staff 
elaborated in the 600-page FPRAC working group 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

24 

report. 
It is important to remember that the proposal 
approved by FPRAC in October 2010 is inspired by 
the third merit system principle:  Equal pay 
should be provided for work of equal value with 
appropriate consideration of both national and 
local rates paid by employers in the private 
sector.  It is this principle that informs the 
General Schedule locality pay system under the 
Federal Employee Pay Comparability Act, and it is 
this principle that the FPRAC-approved proposal 
for the Federal Wage System would help realize. 
The Federal Government should try to be as 
consistent as possible when drawing boundaries to 
define local labor markets in order to uphold 
this merit system principle.  There is no 
justification for using one set of criteria for 
salaried Federal workers and another for Federal 
workers paid on an hourly basis. 
Critics of the FPRAC-approved proposal complain 
that FPRAC has not made a "business case" for its 

 
 

 

 

 

25 

adoption or implementation.  While one might 
question the requirement of a business case for 
an enterprise that is not a business, the case 
for consolidation -- the consolidation proposal 
is based in part on the notions of internal 
equity, external equity, private sector practice, 
and modernization.  Each of these is embodied in 
the merit system principles, although no business 
is bound by such principles.  The best businesses 
place a high value on equity and modernization. 
Businesses do sometimes make decisions solely on 
the basis of cost, and those that operate on a 
lowest labor cost basis, such as Walmart, are 
infamous for the fact that their compensation 
practices impose enormous social cost; for 
example, employees of highly profitable 
corporations qualifying for food stamps, 
Medicaid, CHIP, housing assistance, earned income 
tax credit, free and reduced meals at school, 
publicly subsidized child care, and transit 
benefits, et cetera. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

26 

The Federal Government, to its credit has not 
pursued a lowest cost compensation policy.  
Instead, the Federal Government strives to be a 
model employer with compensation practices that 
reflect the standards set by large firms that aim 
to recruit and retain a high quality, 
well-trained, and highly productive workforce. 
Internal equity in the context of salaries means 
an employer pays all its employees the same or 
similar rate for same or similar work.  The 
FPRAC-approved consolidation proposal is 
primarily about internal equity.  It recognizes 
that both hourly and salaried workers who work in 
the exact same location for the same employer 
deserve to be treated as though they work in the 
same location.  Internal equity is recognized as 
an important pay principle in both public and 
business administration. 
To the extent that pay practices are a 
performance management tool, it is widely 
acknowledged that arbitrary distinctions have a 

 
 

 

 

 

 

27 

distinctly negative effect on productivity, 
morale, and sense that pay is a fair compensation 
for one's work.  Treating Federal employees who 
work side by side in the same place, on the same 
military base, in the same veterans hospital, at 
the same Federal corrections institute as though 
they are working in different locations is a 
violation of the internal equity principle, the 
third merit system principle, and best practices 
standard followed by large private firms that 
provide geographic pay differentials. 
According to surveys by both Towers Watson and 
Culpepper Compensation Consultants, between 60 
and 70 percent of private firms provide 
geographic differentials in base pay; there is no 
evidence that any discriminate between salary and 
hourly workers in geographic differentials.  This 
is an external equity argument in favor of the 
FPRAC-approved consolidation policy. 
There is no reason to pretend that different 
categories of employees who work in the exact 

 
 

 

 

 

 

28 

same location work in a different location, and 
there is no reason to believe that employees will 
accept as fair the pretense that hourly workers 
are in a different location from their salary 
coworkers when in fact they work in the exact 
same space. 
In 1990, when FEPCA was enacted, Congress in the 
first Bush administration recognized that the 
modern definition of a "local labor market" was a 
commuting area.  The outdated Federal Wage System 
boundaries were initially drawn on the basis of 
concentrations of Federal blue collar employment, 
irrespective of commuting patterns.  The FEPCA 
system uses metropolitan statistical area 
boundaries and objective commuting data from the 
Census and the American Community Survey to show 
the dimensions of local labor markets.  The 
criteria used by the Federal Salary Council are 
prudent and appropriate for Federal pay setting 
for both hourly and salaried workers. 
The FSC method requires a 7.5-percent employment 

 
 

 

 

 

 

29 

interchange rate for counties adjacent to 
metropolitan or combined statistical areas and 
has recommended to the pay agent a 20-percent 
commuting rate for single counties to be included 
in existing pay locality. 
Core metropolitan areas in the surrounding 
counties from and into which substantial numbers 
of workers commute are the appropriate boundary 
criteria for a local labor market in 2012.  The 
FPRAC-approved consolidation proposal is, thus, a 
much needed modernization for the Federal Wage 
System. 
DoD's proposed implementation plan is a proposal 
that would make a radical and unjustifiable break 
from decades of pay administration practice in 
the Federal Government.  Neither the FWS nor the 
GS system abolishes existing rates when a new 
county or set of counties is added to an existing 
local schedule.  The plan put forward by DoD 
would do just that:  throwing out the baby with 
the bath water. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

30 

Instead of adding new counties to existing local 
wage areas, as FPRAC has recommended and done in 
every previous instance when an existing local 
wage area has been expanded -- not abolished but 
expanded -- DoD would require the counties that 
meet the new criteria for inclusion to wait until 
a new survey is conducted and new wage schedule 
is calculated.  The resulting mess of unfairness, 
inconsistency, and wasted resources are what DoD 
calls unintended consequences in its second 
document. 
Such consequences do not result from the 
implementation of the plan that OPM staff used in 
its analysis of the FPRAC-approved consolidation 
proposal.  The OPM staff's implementation 
methodology follows past practice and would not 
result in a two-tier system, would not require 
massive numbers of new surveys and new schedules, 
massive numbers of workers on indefinite safe pay 
or recruitment and retention problems.  Only 
DoD's proposal produces such undesirable 

 
 

 

 

 

 

31 

consequences. 
One consequence highlighted by DoD would occur.  
Some employees whose pay would change upon 
implementation would be placed in retained rates 
for some period of time.  The impact of this 
phenomenon is presented as if it would undermine 
the entire pay system.  That is never the case.  
Retained pay already exists in numerous 
situations throughout several pay systems when 
there is a change that affects different 
positions in different ways.  It is one of the 
mechanisms that gives Federal pay systems the 
flexibility necessary to accommodate change, 
while at the same time minimizes its impact on 
individuals. 
The Federal Wage System is often referred to as 
the "prevailing rate system," because Title 5 
refers to it as such; however, the Federal Wage 
System does not pay its workers according to 
private sector rates.  Although it's a pay system 
for blue collar skilled trades, data from the 

 
 

 

 

 

 

32 

private sector industry most closely associated 
with skilled trades is explicitly excluded from 
consideration in prevailing rate calculations, 
data is collected by hand and come from only the 
small fraction of local employers willing to 
share information with the Federal Government. 
The unwillingness to share data has been an 
increasing problem in recent decades.  Whether 
from anti-government animists or competitive 
considerations is not known.  However, the 
quality of the data collected, the method of 
drawing a straight pay line for each local wage 
area, the persistence of pay caps -- no one can 
receive a pay adjustment higher than the average 
GS adjustment -- the uniqueness of many Federal 
blue collar jobs with no private sector job 
matches renders DoD's declaration that the 
FPRAC-approved consolidation proposal will over- 
or under-compensate many employees absurd. 
The Federal Wage System does not pay exact market 
rates.  What the Federal Government can and 

 

33 

should do is strive to pay competitive rates and 
treat its hourly and salaried workforces the same 
with regard to geographic boundaries. 
The proposal that FPRAC adopted in October 2010 
to consolidate blue collar wage areas within GS 
localities has been thoroughly studied.  It would 
affect a relatively small number of Federal blue 
collar workers, just 18,000 or 9.5 percent of the 
workforce, at a modest cost of around $60 million 
per year. 
Although the number of employees affected is 
small, the impact of this proposal would be 
tremendously positive in terms of recognition.  
It will be an important step toward 
modernization, fairness, and equity, and it will 
bring the promise of the merit system principle 
of equal pay for work of equal value closer to 
realization. 
And the letter is signed by J. David Cox, the 

 
 

 

 

 

 
National Secretary-Treasurer of the American Federation of 
Government Employees, myself; Mr. Dennis Phelps from the 

 
 

 

 

34 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you. 
Any further discussion of the motion? 
MR. ALLEN:  Not from the Management side, Mr. 

Metal Trades Department, the AFL-CIO, and the International 
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers; Sarah Suszczyk, Federal 
Deputy Director of the National Association of Government 
Employees; William Fenaughty, National Secretary-Treasurer 
of the National Federation of Federal Employees, IAM, 
AFL-CIO, who is also a representative of the Metal Trades 
Department of the AFL-CIO; and Mr. Steve Fisher from the 
Association of Civilian Technicians. 
 
 
 
Chairman. 
 
discussion on either side, are we ready to vote? 
 
 
record here that we are lacking one of the Management 
members, and under FPRAC's rules, that would mean one of 
the Labor members, with their indulgence, would not vote on 
this today.  The other four members would. 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right.  You folks need a 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If there is no further 

MS. SIMON:  Yes. 
MR. ALLEN:  Mr. Chairman, I will note for the 

 
 

 

 

35 

MS. SIMON:  Can we check -- Keith, are you on the 

minute to figure out who is not going to vote? 
 
phone?  How about you vote and I won't vote? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

MR. HILL:  Fine. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Go ahead, Madeline. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Okay.  Metal Trades? 
MR. PHELPS:  Yes. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  AFGE, Keith? 
 
MR. HILL:  Yes. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  NAGE? 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Yes. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  ACT? 
MR. FISHER:  Yes. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  OPM? 
MR. ALLEN:  No. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  DoD? 
MR. SHULMAN:  No. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Air Force? 
MS. VANKEUREN:  No. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  Navy? 

 
 

 

 

36 

MR. SAAVEDRA:  No. 
MS. GONZALEZ:  The vote is a tie. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, the vote is a 

 
 
 
tie.  I will cast my vote in favor of the motion.  I 
recognize this has been a very difficult, contentious, 
long-lasting issue, and I recognize there are good 
arguments on both sides, but I find the case that the Labor 
folks have made to be, in the end, compelling about a local 
labor market is a local labor market.  If it's defined in 
one way for white collar workers, I don't know of any good 
reason to define it differently for blue collar workers.  
Commuting practices, there is no evidence that they are 
different for the two groups.  I am not going to elaborate 
all the discussion that we have had before, but, in the 
end, I do vote with Labor on this, and the motion is, 
therefore, carried.  We have adopted it, and we will 
transmit that along with the study group report and any 
minority report to Director Berry. 
 
especially appreciate the very hard work of OPM folks who 
have dug deep into this subject to produce this enormous 

It has been a long slog on this issue.  I 

 
 

 

 

37 

With that, I should ask, is there any other 

I think we will all be glad to get back to some 

report, very detailed, very comprehensive report.  I 
appreciate the indulgence and participation of all the 
members of FPRAC, both in here and those involved in  the 
study group which met 10 times to review various aspects of 
this issue. 
 
of the other, more regular business of FPRAC. 
 
business today? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  For the sake of clarity, Mr. 
Chairman, I should note that we are still under a 
Governmentwide pay freeze.  In order for Director Berry to 
implement the FPRAC recommendation, if he chooses to do so, 
we would have to enter into the regulatory process, which 
involves issuing a proposed rule, receiving any public 
comments on it, and then based on those comments, 
proceeding to the final regulation stage.  It would be 
anticipated that any changes would not be implemented until 
January 2013. 
 
clarification, in case anyone needed it. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you for that 

 
 

 

 

38 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Oh, absolutely.  And sorry if 

[Laughter.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Did you want to, Seth, say 

 
MR. PHELPS:  Mr. Chairman, I just want to say I 
think we ought to thank DoD staff from wage setting too.  
They provided a lot of information for OPM to be able to do 
their work. 
 
I left you folks out.  Don't feel it was in any way meant 
as a slight.  It's the aging brain, I occasionally forget 
stuff.  You'll get there. 
 
 
something about -- 
MR. SHULMAN:  Yeah, just very briefly. 
 
As noted earlier, Craig Jerabek, who has served 
 
as Chief of Wage and Salary for -- how many years, Craig? 
 
 
Salary for -- 
 
 
career at the end of this calendar month.  This is his last 
FPRAC meeting, and the Department will recognize Craig 

MR. JERABEK:  About 8 years. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Eight years and worked in Wage and 

MR. JERABEK:  About 35. 
MR. SHULMAN:  -- 35 years, will be calling it a 

 
 

 

 

39 

So, on behalf of the Department of Defense, 

[Applause.] 
MR. SHULMAN:  With that, of course, we had the 

separately in a retirement ceremony a couple of weeks 
hence, but we wanted to take the opportunity to thank him 
for all his years of effort and dedication in his current 
and his former capacities. 
 
thanks very much. 
 
 
need to try to replace Craig, and we think we've done that, 
but, you know, we'll find out. 
[Laughter.] 
 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  Jim Brady, who is sitting next to 
Craig over there has been promoted to the same position.  
So Jim, in effect, became the Chief of Wage and Salary 
effective this past Sunday, so Jim is the man. 
 
Karl has taken over Jim's former responsibilities 
as the Eastern Region representative for Appropriated Fund, 
Wage and Salary. 
 
will just continue to fill vacancies as long as we are able 
to, until we have to stop. 

And that means there's another vacancy, and we 

 
 

 

 

40 

So, with that said, I have nothing else to add. 
MR. ALLEN:  I'd like to add to that, Seth. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Sure. 
MR. ALLEN:  I have actually known Craig and 

 
 
 
 
worked with Craig for 21 or 22 out of his 37-plus years 
working with DoD.  I did work with DoD a couple of years 
before I came to OPM, and I learned a lot from Craig. 
Craig actually went out on a local wage survey, 
 
and we got to do the survey in midtown Manhattan back in 
the early '90s, which was quite an experience.  And Craig 
had some interesting stories to tell about what midtown 
Manhattan used to be like before I went to do the survey 
there.  It was, thankfully, a little bit better. 
 
 
have been excellent partners with OPM and with the labor 
unions involved in setting the pay for blue collar 
employees who work for the Federal Government, and I wish 
Craig well in his future. 
 
 

[Laughter.] 
MR. ALLEN:  I would say that Craig and his staff 

MR. JERABEK:  Thank you very much. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I just want to add my thanks 

 
 

 

 

41 

MR. JERABEK:  I would like to take an opportunity 

as well, especially, Craig, to your generosity in providing 
your staff to help educate me in my role as the relatively 
new chair of this committee.  I have learned a great deal 
from your folks, and I expect I will learn more as I 
continue, so, anyway, best wishes. 
 
also to thank everybody here that I have worked with.  It 
has been a very interesting time, especially the last 
couple of years, on different FPRAC matters.  And I think 
in the spirit of cooperation, I think it is a good thing to 
keep the Federal Wage System flexible and growing and keep 
it intact as much as we can, because I think what we have 
learned over the years is that the FWS since 1972 has been 
a model pay system for Federal employees.  So I'd love to 
see that continue, and I'm sure with everybody here, I'm 
sure everybody has the best interest in heart. 
 
MR. PHELPS:  From the Labor side, I'd like to 
thank Craig and wish him a happy retirement.  I've been 
able to work with him for over the last 5 years quite a 
bit, and it's been a pleasure, Craig. 
 

MR. JERABEK:  Thank you, Dennis. 

 
 

 

 

42 

MS. SIMON:  And, Craig, I'm another one of your 

MR. JERABEK:  Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I think there is cake; is 

 
students.  I've learned so much from you.  You always 
answer all my questions.  I know some of them are dumb 
questions, but you've always been very, very accessible and 
helpful to me, and I also appreciate all your hard work and 
wish you the best in retirement. 
 
 
that right? 
 
 
but you have 15 minutes to grab a cup in the lobby and 
bring it back up here.  You have to pay for your own 
coffee, though. 
 
 
 
adjourned.  Thank you. 
 
 

I guess we will be adjourning. 
MR. PHELPS:  Motion to adjourn. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing no objection, we are 

MR. SHULMAN:  There is cake. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I guess we don't have coffee, 

