FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

1 

         608th FPRAC 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

Thursday, October 15, 2015 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management  

Washington, D.C. 20415 

ATTENDANCE: 

Members/Alternates: 

Management Members: 

Mark Allen, OPM 
Jim Davey, DoD 
David Pedersen, Navy 
Arleen Romba, VA (via phone) 

Labor Members: 

Randy Erwin, MTD/NFFE 
J. David Cox, AFGE 
Jacque Simon, AFGE 
Robert Shore, NAGE 
Steven Landis, ACT 

Staff Specialists and Visitors: 

Brenda Roberts, Designated Federal Officer, OPM 
Madeline Gonzalez, OPM 
Steve Driscoll, OPM 
Kevin Franklin, OPM 
Jim Brady, DoD 
Rebecca Chaves, DoD 
Rosemary Meriwether, Navy 
Brian Kokotajlo, AFGE 
Rod Koeppa, AFGE 
Ryan O’Leary, NAGE 
Robert Jentsch, ACT 
Chris Golden, ACT 

Recording Secretaries: 

Mike Eicher, OPM 
Ana Paunoiu, OPM 

[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]

C O N T E N T S  

2 

Page 

I.  Opening/Announcements 

 
Introductions..............................................................................................3 
  Announcements.........................................................................................4 

II.  Review of the Minutes of the 607th Meeting...................................................5 

III.  Old Business.....................................................................................................5 

a.  Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2 

(cid:173)  2013 Update to Review of Lee County, Virginia, 586-MGT-1 

b.  Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI Metropolitan Statistical 

Area, 562-MGT-2 
(cid:173)  2013 Update to Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 

Metropolitan Statistical Area, 586-MGT-2 

c.  Letter from the American Federation of Government Employees, Dated 

June 6, 2011, Requesting FPRAC Review a Proposal to Redefine 
Monroe County, PA, from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA, Wage Area 
to the New York, NY, Wage Area, 564-AFGE-1 

d.  Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC Metropolitan Statistical 

Area, 575-MGT-1 
(cid:173)  2013 Update to Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC 

Metropolitan Statistical Area, 588-MGT-1 

e.  Proposal to Move a Portion of Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst from 

the Philadelphia, PA, Wage Area to the New York, NY, Wage Area, 
599-ACT-1 
(cid:173)  Review of Burlington and Ocean Counties, New Jersey,  

602-OPM-1 

(cid:173)  Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst GS and FWS Employment as of 

October 2014, 603-OC-2 

(cid:173)  Transcript of 556th Meeting – includes remarks by Colonel Gina M. 
Grosso, Former Commander at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst 
on pages 8 to 20 [REPRINT]  

(cid:173)  2011 letter from 15 New Jersey Congressmen in support of AFGE’s 
proposal to consolidate FWS wage areas, or portions of wage areas 
that lie within non-RUS GS locality pay areas, 565-OC-3 
[REPRINT] 

(cid:173)  Director John Berry’s response to 2011 letter from the 15 New 

Jersey Congressmen in support of AFGE’s proposal, 566-OC-2 
[REPRINT] 

(cid:173)   Burlington and Ocean Counties, NJ: Summary of FPRAC 

Discussions, 606-OC-2 

(cid:173)  Counties Redefined/Not Redefined or Split Due to Organizational 
Relationships among Closely Related or Closely Located Federal 
Activities (1994-2014),607-OPM-2 

f. Review of Greene County, Missouri, 607-OPM-3 

 

  

P R O C E E D I N G  

3 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Welcome, everyone, to our 608th meeting of the 

Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee. My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chair of the 

Committee, and as we always do, let's please go around the room and introduce ourselves. Let's 

start today with you, Randy. 

MR. ERWIN: Randy Erwin with the National Federation of Federal Employees 

representing Metal Trades Department. 

MR. COX: J. David Cox with AFGE. 

MS. SIMON: Jacque Simon, AFGE. 

MR. SHORE: Robert Shore with NAGE. 

MR. LANDIS: Steve Landis with ACT. 

MR. ALLEN: Mark Allen with OPM. 

MR. DAVEY: Jim Davey with DoD. 

MR. PEDERSEN: David Pedersen, Navy. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And I believe we have a person on the phone with us. 

Would you introduce yourself? 

MS. ROMBA: Arleen Romba with VA. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you, Arleen. 

And I would ask the people also around the sides of the room to please introduce 

themselves loudly. 

MS. ROBERTS: Brenda Roberts, OPM, Designated Federal Officer. 

MS. MERIWETHER: Rosemary Meriwether, Navy. 

MR. FRANKLIN Kevin Franklin, OPM. 

4 

MR. DRISCOLL: Steve Driscoll, OPM. 

MR. BRADY: Jim Brady, DoD. 

MS. CHAVES: Becky Chaves, DoD. 

MS. GONZALEZ: Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 

MR. EICHER: Mike Eicher, OPM. 

MS. PAUNOIU: Ana Paunoiu with OPM. 

MR. JENTSCH: Robert Jentsch, ACT, Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst. 

MR. GOLDEN: Chris Golden, ACT, Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst. 

MR. KOKOTAJLO: Brian Kokotajlo, AFGE Local 2001, Fort Dix. 

MR. KOEPPA: Rod Koeppa, AFGE Local 2001, Fort Dix. 

MR. O'LEARY: Ryan O'Leary with NAGE. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you, everyone. 

A couple of quick announcements. The first one is the e-mail that we sent you 

about the earthquake drill. Actually, that drill has been canceled. If the building starts shaking, 

it's not a drill. 

[Laughter.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: So the other announcement that I made a little earlier, 

and will now repeat, is that we found that our new equipment for recording produces a lot of 

feedback if everybody's mic is on at the same time. You'll see there's a little light in the upper 

right-hand corner of your mic. If it's green, it's on; if it's red, it's off. If there's no light at all, that 

means you haven't turned the thing on. There's a switch at the back to do that. So what I would 

ask people is please keep their mics turned off unless they are speaking, and that button in the 

center of the mic is how you turn it on and off, okay? And that concludes my announcements. 

5 

That brings up the review of the transcript of our last meeting. Are there any 

changes or corrections that people want to bring to our attention beyond those that you have 

already told us about? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: If not, is there any objection to adopting the transcript 

of our last meeting? 

MR. ERWIN: Move to adopt. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Thank you. 

MR. ALLEN: Second. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Seconded. All right. I read my Robert's Rules of 

Order, and what I found in there is you actually don't need motions to adopt transcripts of 

meetings. I could be wrong about that, but that's what I read. It's sufficient for the Chair just to 

ask if there are any objections to adopting it. So in the interest of expediting our overly long 

meetings, I have decided to do it that way. 

So hearing no objection, the transcript is adopted. All right. 

That brings up Old Business. We have a number of items on our Old Business 

agenda, and I know, Steve, you have asked to bring something up. Are you still interested in 

doing that? 

MR. LANDIS: About letter (e)? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes. 

MR. LANDIS: Yes, I guess if we're ready to discuss that now, I believe that 

AFGE has something with that, with letter (e). 

MS. SIMON: You go ahead and make the motion. 

6 

MR. LANDIS: Oh, okay. I will make the motion to discuss, with the potential of 

bringing to a vote, letter (e), the proposal to move the remaining portion of Joint Base McGuire-

Dix-Lakehurst into the New York wage area. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. So going back to your original motion from 

our 599th meeting—let me read it back to you, and tell me if this is what you are saying. It says 

you propose moving the areas of Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst that are currently in the 

Philadelphia wage area into the New York wage area. 

MR. LANDIS: Correct. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And that's your motion? 

MR. LANDIS: Yes. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Is there a second? 

MR. COX: I will second the motion. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: And it has been seconded. 

Well, we're open for discussion. Typically, we would give you a chance, Steve, to 

say a few words in favor of your motion. 

MR. LANDIS: Okay. It's interesting that this happens to be the actual sixth 

anniversary of the creation of the Joint Base. It was created in October of 2009. We've discussed 

this at length for the last 4 or 5 years I've been on the Committee. I know that we've had a lot of 

discussion here, especially back in the spring, and we had Colonel Kelm that came up to 

basically testify to the actual closely-related nature of the Joint Base. I think that he did an 

excellent job of doing that. 

We've had some other questions in the past. I know that Mr. Davey had an issue 

with moving a larger portion into New York as opposed to moving a smaller portion from New 

7 

York into Philly. I think that part of our issues with that are that when they created the Joint 

Base, the government moved the larger portion of McGuire and Dix for the GS workers into the 

smaller portion. 

Also, moving the smaller portion of Lakehurst, which is in Ocean County, would 

then move a portion of the New York metropolitan statistical area out of the New York wage 

area, so I think either one of those, moving that would be an incorrect maneuver. 

I just don't think there's really much left to discuss on this. I think we've hit this 

from every possible direction. I think that the majority of people, whether they're able to vote in 

that direction or not, I think that we all know that this is the right thing to do, and I just think it's 

time to take care of it. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any other discussion? 

Jim? 

MR. DAVEY: If I may. Thank you, Mr. Landis. 

You've mentioned that moving the GS—the way it happened, well, it did move 

part of the MSA from New York, from the Philadelphia area to the New York MSA, so there 

was a movement of MSA occurring there. Normally, we don't split an MSA. 

What we're doing in this instance is we are splitting an MSA, so it's anti the 

concept that we have, where a metropolitan statistical area stays together, so I would propose 

that we keep the Philadelphia statistical area together, which would be Burlington stays over 

there. Dix-McGuire stays over there. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any other discussion? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I would note, just for background information, 

8 

among the many documents we have listed on this issue under Old Business (e) on the agenda is 

607-OPM-2, “Counties Redefined/Not Redefined or Split Due to Organizational Relationships 

among Closely Related or Closely Located Federal Activities, 1994-2014.” This document 

summarizes how FPRAC has dealt in the past with cases where federal installations straddle 

wage area lines. 

Does somebody else want to speak on the motion? 

Jacque. 

MS. SIMON: I have a question, Mr. Davey. Are you prepared to support this 

proposal? 

MR. DAVEY: No. We believe that the locality areas should be FWS locality 

areas as opposed to GS locality areas. 

MR. ALLEN: One thing that OPM staff has done here is provide an analysis of 

the regulatory criteria that are normally used for defining Federal Wage System wage areas. 

Based on our regulations, distance is the first criterion OPM looks at. As such, we would find 

that Burlington County is closer to Philadelphia than it is to New York, and also that the 

Lakehurst portion of the Joint Base is marginally closer to Philadelphia. But there's more 

commuting from Ocean County, NJ, into New York than there is into the Philadelphia survey 

area. 

To me, it really is a tough decision on what to do with the Joint Base because it is 

split in two parts. It used to be all part of the Philadelphia wage area up until around 1998. In 

1998, OPM defined the Lakehurst portion of what is now the Joint Base to the New York wage 

area based primarily on the metropolitan statistical area changes in that area. 

Nothing has really changed for Burlington County, however, which is the location 

9 

where the majority of the Federal Wage System workers at the Joint Base continue to work, and 

it's not very persuasive to say that, under the Federal Wage System's criteria, the dominant 

federal employer in Burlington County should be moved to the New York wage area when it's so 

close to the Philadelphia survey area, and is indeed part of the Philadelphia survey area. 

So, I can't agree with the idea to move the McGuire Air Force Base-Fort Dix 

portions out of the Philadelphia wage area and into the New York wage area, but that's just based 

on distance. 

I understand fully the rationale that it is one Joint Base, and it certainly makes 

sense; the employees at the Joint Base should be treated the same under the Federal Wage 

System. They should be paid from one wage schedule. However, I'm not prepared to say that the 

employees in the Lakehurst portion should be moved out of the New York wage area and into 

the Philadelphia wage area because that would create a problem at that set of installations at 

Lakehurst. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Anyone else? 

Jacque. 

MS. SIMON: The Joint Base is a somewhat unique situation, and we all know 

that, but having listened to you just now, the establishment of the Joint Base doesn't seem to 

override for you any kind of equity concerns about treating the salaried and the hourly 

workforces differently when it comes to defining their locality. 

The notion that these federal workers are working in the exact same location for 

the exact same employer and the employer is going to discriminate and treat some of them as if 

they are in one location and others as if they are in another location and that discrimination has 

adverse implications for the hourly workforce, it's so inequitable, and that issue isn't even being 

10 

addressed. 

Instead, we're denying the jointness of the base, and I don't know how many 

years—it's going on 10 years that this has been established as a Joint Base, and here you are 

saying, "Well, they may have done that on paper, but we're going to still treat it as if they are 

separate employers." It's the same employer. It's the Joint Base. You got to stop calling it "Fort 

Dix," "Fort McGuire." They're not separate anymore. It's one base. It's unified. That's what the 

BRAC did. 

So you've got inequity on top of inequity. You've got the inequity between the 

salaried and hourly workers, which is outrageous in itself, and a further inequity that denies the 

existence of the Joint Base. And we're just at a loss to understand how even the Department of 

Defense that unified the base, that created the Joint Base, wants to pretend that it's not a Joint 

Base. I don't get it. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Anyone else? 

Jim. 

MR. DAVEY: I asked a question a couple meetings ago, and I don't recollect an 

answer. We have new locality areas being created for GS, and I was trying to determine the 

impact those new locality pay areas might have on this kind of a discussion. Does anybody 

recollect any review or any outcome of that? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I've been pressing for information on that, but I 

haven't gotten it myself yet. 

MS. SIMON: It would not affect the Joint Base. 

MR. DAVEY: Are there any crossover people? Are there any bases in two 

counties or partly in one area and partly in another? 

11 

MR. ALLEN: Under OPM's proposed regulations that would establish the new 

locality pay areas, which are based on metropolitan areas, like Albany, Colorado Springs, etc, 

there is no joint base that would be affected by these proposed regulations for the General 

Schedule locality pay areas. 

And, in fact, Madeline, do you remember if there are any counties that would be 

moved from one wage area to another? Or that could be moved from one wage area to another? 

MS. GONZALEZ: I don't recall that, but I do recall that DoD will have to prepare 

two schedules in several instances where there is just one now. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I'd like to make a procedural suggestion, if I might. I 

think this is an important question, but somewhat separate from the one at hand. I think that we 

ought to have a separate conversation about the implications of the new GS locality pay areas for 

FWS, but keep in mind that is somewhat separate from Steve's motion. 

MR. ALLEN: I totally agree. It would not have any impact on the Joint Base 

McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: So, in that case, let us return to the motion and see if 

there's any other discussion of the motion. 

MS. SIMON: My colleague who works in the prison on the Joint Base has just 

reminded me that even the Postal Service has recognized the Joint Base, one ZIP code, one town. 

It's now called "Joint Base MDL," McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, NJ. It's one place. 

Every county that's on a border, you could make an argument that it has a closer 

distance to some other wage area. That's the nature of borders. Just the idea that these counties 

are on borders doesn't disqualify them from being unified. 

MR. ALLEN: OPM does have a longstanding practice of taking single 

12 

organizational entities into account somewhat informally. FPRAC has recommended over the 

years that if one installation is split between wage areas, then it should be defined to one wage 

area because otherwise it causes obvious management problems to get employees to work in all 

parts of the installation. 

It's not really a new issue. It's something that we've talked about over the years, 

but we've never put something in regulation that says if there is something like a Joint Base that 

it should not be split between wage areas. 

If we were just relying on current regulatory criteria, the majority of the 

employees who are stationed at what used to be the McGuire Air Force Base and Fort Dix 

portions of the Joint Base would appropriately continue to be defined to the Philadelphia wage 

area. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: If I could just interject real quickly. Mark, you're not 

saying that we should delay a decision on this just because we don't have that sort of regulation 

in place, are you? I'm curious. As I mentioned earlier, one of the documents we have circulated 

on this is 607-OPM-2, which lists, I think, more than a dozen cases. Now, obviously, the facts 

differ from case to case. They're not all identical, but the document provides the general idea of 

what FPRAC has done in cases where a single federal installation or a group of closely-related 

installations straddles two wage areas, and so it's not as if FPRAC has been impeded from 

making recommendations in such situations by lack of any specific regulation. I think the 

regulations in fact have some language in them about closely-related activities. 

MR. ALLEN: Not for the Appropriated Fund employment sites. They may have 

something in there for the Non-Appropriated Fund. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: How has FPRAC been doing this all these years, 

13 

other than the application of common sense?  

MR. ALLEN: Over the years, it's been based on an analysis of the Federal Wage 

System's regulatory criteria, and then decisions are derived from that. There has been some 

flexibility applied with places like National Parks that are split between wage areas. There's no—

well, there's no Joint Base. The joint basing is kind of a relatively new concept, and I think Joint 

Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst is the only Joint Base that is currently split between wage areas. 

But I'm not necessarily saying that OPM needs a regulation in order to take the 

Joint Base into account for defining wage areas. What I'm saying is that the only thing I've heard 

so far is that OPM should change the definitions of wage areas because General Schedule 

locality pay areas are defined in a different way. That seems to be the main argument that 

members are considering at this point, not how to operate within the Federal Wage System 

regulations and operating procedures. 

MS. SIMON: Mark, I don't think that's a fair characterization. Everybody who has 

talked about the Joint Base has talked about the uniqueness of the Joint Base as well as the 

inequity between the salaried and the hourly workforce, not only the inequity between the 

salaried and hourly workforce. We have also talked about the fact that this unique situation of a 

Joint Base should be unified to New York. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Let me give you my observation, for what it's worth. 

I hope you're not saying, Mark, now that the Joint Base issue has been kicking around for 5 or 6 

years, that we need further delay, pending some discussion of a potential regulation. 

MR. ALLEN: I don't think we're going to get any more information, Mr. 

Chairman. I appreciate everybody coming down and explaining their points of view from the 

Joint Base. It is very helpful to understand the local concerns from everybody. 

14 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: So if you want us to look into potential regulation, 

we can do that separately. Unless there's some new point about the motion that someone wants to 

make—Steve? 

MR. LANDIS: I just wanted to say a couple of things. We have mentioned, like 

Jacque said—I have mentioned repeatedly the fact that the Joint Base has—it's not just the 

difference between GS and FWS. You have FWS workers on one side of the base making a 

higher rate than FWS workers on the other side of the base. 

I brought up as well one of the documents that was handed out in a work group 

meeting. It says right in there that it's general practice for OPM to not divide a closely-related 

federal activity between two different wage areas. 

Also, in response to your mention that your main concern is the distances, the 

distances between the McGuire and Dix portion of the base from Philly to New York, it's a few 

miles. It's not like it's like 20 or 30 miles. Most of the people that I work with on the Joint Base 

commute from that more northeasterly area. 

There are people who live in Burlington County, but there are a lot of people, for 

example, who live in Ocean County and live even further north than that. 

So I think if the distance is what we're talking about, the distance is so negligible, 

and in some cases, the majority of the people are still commuting from the northeastern area, I 

don't think that should be a negatively deciding factor on this. 

MR. SHORE: Correct me if I am misremembering, but I thought we heard 

testimony that the splitting of the base was actually hindering the operations with assignments of 

overtime and things of that matter. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: From not one but two successive base commanders. 

15 

MR. SHORE: Yeah. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Anything else? 

MR. DAVEY: I think we replied that that's an option that they can overcome 

simply by assigning people the way that they could assign them before it was a Joint Base. 

I would like to remind everybody that there is a motion that's within OPM's 

consideration already, the GS locality pay becomes the FWS locality pay, that this item is 

already under consideration within OPM, and there's apparently a legislative item that we're 

seeing in front of us that will be introduced—or is already introduced that performs the same 

thing that we're talking about. So why would we not let that work its way through? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Anybody else want to—J. David? 

MR. COX: Part of it, though we allow many things to work through, I am 

reminded very much of the movie that was very popular about 2 years ago, when Lyndon 

Johnson said to Dr. King, "No, no. Right now is just not a good time to go for voter rights. Let 

me keep working the process," and Dr. King said, "Not no, but you've got to do it now. We've 

got to have voting rights. The injustice has been carried on long enough. 

This base, I believe, was put together about 10 years ago? Am I correct? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: 2009. 

MR. COX: Okay. That's 6 or soon to be 7 years. That is a long period of time to 

join people together. Yes, you've got people working here, and it's nice, "Well, don't assign this 

person overtime there," but sometimes that's the person that can go do it. People cross over 

various sections, apply for many jobs. It's one facility, I think. We had something like this 

similar at the prison down in Butner, North Carolina, at one time that finally had to get situated 

because the county line ran down through the middle of the prison, one guy stuck in one locality 

16 

area and one in the other. 

It's time to deal with it, and to count on Congress to move any type of legislation, 

I don't think that they are going to do that. They don't do much of anything up there nowadays, 

so they're not going to move in Congress, and I think it's time to just move forward. 

MR. ALLEN: Yes, I would agree. This issue has been problematic for probably 

30 years. It's because it's such a large military installation that straddles two counties. 

The last time Management members considered and voted on this issue, there was 

actually a labor motion to move the entire Fort Dix-McGuire Air Force Base portions into the 

New York wage area, as well. If we're voting on this, I don't think that I am hearing the 

Management position has changed. 

But having said that, if we're ready to vote— 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any further discussion? 

MR. DAVEY: Well, I think it's unfortunate that our Air Force member is not here 

today, who would be providing input on the Air Force position of this. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: We're sorry he's not here too. I'm not sure where he 

is. 

MR. LANDIS: I think we got a pretty strong Air Force position when the base 

command sent their representation down to explain the problems they were suffering there. 

MR. DAVEY: There are different levels of Air Force input. 

MR. LANDIS: I understand. 

MR. DAVEY: And that was one of the many levels. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any further discussion? 

[No audible response.] 

17 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: We have a motion on the floor. It appears there's no 

consensus on it. Unless there is further discussion, then I guess we need to vote. 

Steve? 

MR. LANDIS: They have four members, so— 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Somebody, yes, on the Labor side will need to recuse 

themselves from voting. They have four, including the VA representative on the phone on the 

Management side, so somebody needs to sit out and not vote on the Labor side. 

MR. SHORE: I'll sit out. 

MS. GONZALEZ: Who will not vote? NAGE? 

MR. ALLEN: NAGE. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: So, Madeline, would you please conduct the vote. 

MS. GONZALEZ: Mr. Chairman, can you read the motion one more time, 

please? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Yes. The motion is the first sentence of 599-ACT-1: 

We propose moving the areas of Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst that are currently in the 

Philadelphia wage area into the New York wage area. 

MR. ALLEN: Is that moved and seconded? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: That has been moved and seconded earlier on, yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ: I need a "yes" or "no" answer. OPM? 

MR. ALLEN: No. 

MS. GONZALEZ: DoD? 

MR. DAVEY: No. 

MS. GONZALEZ: Navy? 

18 

MR. PEDERSEN: No. 

MS. GONZALEZ: VA? 

MS. ROMBA: No. 

MS. GONZALEZ: Metal Trades? 

MR. ERWIN: Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ: AFGE, Mr. Cox? 

MR. COX: Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ: AFGE, Jacque? 

MS. SIMON: Yes. 

MS. GONZALEZ: ACT? 

MR. LANDIS: Yes. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: It's a tie, Mr. Chairman, 4 to 4. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: I am pleased to vote yes, so we will recommend this 

to the Director. 

I forgot to mention at the outset under Announcements, I did see early this 

morning an article from the Pocono Record about the situation at Tobyhanna Army Depot. I 

asked Madeline to circulate the article—please see 608-OC-1. 

We have a number of other Old Business items. Are there any that people want to 

bring up—J. David? 

MR. COX: Mr. Chairman, I would like to move that we bring up under Old 

Business, (c), redefine the Tobyhanna Army Depot to the New York wage area also. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: So the proposal is to redefine—what exactly then? 

Just Tobyhanna or the county? 

19 

MR. COX: No, the county. It's Monroe County in the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre 

wage area to the New York wage area. The GS pay schedule covers that same area. I think what 

we have pending in OPM is a definition that there not be a split of GS and wage grade areas. I 

think that's the exact thing that we voted on years ago that's been going through the process. 

What I'm saying today, I would move to take this one forward because we've been 

waiting forever on that other decision, so I'm just saying this is one that continues to create lots 

of problems. 

I was up there recently, difficulty continues in recruiting, hiring, training, all those 

type of things, so I would move to move it forward. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: So it's moved to redefine Monroe County, 

Pennsylvania, from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre wage area to the New York wage area. Did I state 

that correctly? 

It's been moved. Is there a second? 

MS. SIMON: I second. 

MR. ALLEN: Mr. Chairman, I would like to note that we don't actually currently 

have any analysis for Monroe County where we look at the Federal Wage System regulatory 

criteria such as we've done for the Newburgh wage area or the Joint Base issue before the 

Committee. OPM staff will be happy to put something together on that, so we could take a look 

at Monroe County and see where it is situated. There most likely have been some changes in 

commuting patterns in the region, but I don't think the Committee has ever looked at it before. 

But if the Committee would like, we can put something together. It may help clarify the issues 

we're looking at with Monroe County. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Any further discussion on that? 

20 

MR. COX: I think we'd be amenable to that, Mark, because we believe the 

commuting patterns and all are there, and I know we've had some statistical data on this in the 

past. You may not all have written it down, but this is one we've talked to death about 7 or 8 

years, maybe longer than that. 

MR. ALLEN: Ten. At least 10. 

MR. COX: Ten. So I think that there's probably—and I know the issue before was 

we were trying to do a nationwide fix, so that one is still out there in the black hole too. But I 

think this one may be easier to try to fix as an individual one. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Just so I am clear, you are open to deferring this 

discussion? 

MR. COX: Yeah, yeah. I think we would be willing to defer. How long do you 

think that would take? Do you think we could have it on at the next meeting? 

MR. ALLEN: If not the next meeting, in December? Right, Madeline? 

MS. GONZALEZ: Not before December. I will try for December. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. 

MS. SIMON: On a slightly different note, do you have any kind of information 

about the timing of the proposed rule for Newburgh? 

MR. ALLEN: For Newburgh, our proposed regulation is undergoing internal 

clearance. From start to finish, these changes typically take around 6 months. Actually, most of 

the rules defining Federal Wage System wage area boundaries do not require OMB review, so 

that tends to move forward faster than most other types of regulations that OPM would do. 

It should be 6 months from when the recommendation was made. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. Is there any other Old Business item that 

21 

people want to bring up this morning? 

MR. COX: Well, I wasn't here, and I haven't been here several meetings, but I'm 

actually very familiar with North Carolina simply because I lived there for a long time. This 

number (d), could somebody give me a quick background again on what that is? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Do you happen to have it, Mark? 

MR. ALLEN: It's been so long, I don't think I am carrying that one around with 

me anymore. 

MR. COX: I mean, there's the Charlotte wage area. There's the Asheville wage 

area, and this is trying to move it from one to the other or— 

MR. ALLEN: No. 

MR. COX: This is sort of out there in between both of them? 

MR. ALLEN: I believe it was three counties in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, 

North Carolina metropolitan statistical area and one of the more—the less populated county had 

been added by OMB to the metropolitan area, and we were trying to decide what to do with that 

county at that time. 

Do you remember, Madeline? 

MS. GONZALEZ: There are four counties. There are two in one wage area and 

two in another. 

MR. ALLEN: Okay. 

MR. COX: Two probably in Charlotte. Two probably in Asheville because I think 

there's two wage areas there. 

MS. GONZALEZ: Yes. There are two in Asheville and two in Charlotte. 

MR. ALLEN: If I remember correctly, I think the Management proposal would 

22 

have affected no employees, but there were a few employees who would have been moved to the 

Charlotte wage area. 

MS. GONZALEZ: No employees would have been moved under the management 

proposal. 

MR. ALLEN: But if the MSA was defined to the other wage area, there would 

have been an impact on a few employees? 

MS. GONZALEZ: Yes. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Do we want to take another look at this, perhaps? 

MR. COX: Let us go back and take a look at that one to see what that is. Now that 

Charlotte is fixing to become a new GS locality, there may be other factors that's going on there, 

not to confuse with the other, but that's one that may be changing. 

MR. ALLEN: We don't need to reintroduce it since it's still active on the agenda, 

but we can discuss it at the next meeting in more detail. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: We will remind people to take another look at that 

one prior to next meeting. 

Anything else? Any other Old Business item that people want to talk about this 

morning? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: If not, I'm not aware of any New Business, but 

maybe there's something I don't know about. Are there any New Business items people want to 

bring up? 

Steve. 

MR. LANDIS: I just wanted to ask. After the June meeting, there was something 

23 

we were discussing earlier. Mr. Davey—actually back in June, I think it was, how there was no 

criteria in the regulation, and I did a little research and found the regulation talks about splitting 

MSAs only under unusual circumstances. I think we've discussed that a few times. 

I thought, leading up to this, that that would be enough, and apparently, the 

majority that voted did as well. But do you think it would help in the future if we were to 

regulate how to treat closely-related single large federal institutions that spread out across the 

MSA lines, something to that effect, for future reference to keep things like this from happening, 

drawn out for such long periods of time? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Do we think maybe a working group discussion 

would be useful on this issue? 

MR. LANDIS: Yeah. I just thought that would be something we could discuss 

there or anywhere really, wherever you guys would think would be best. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Does that sound like—to me, that's certainly a fine 

idea. Is there any objection to referring this topic to the working group? 

MR. ALLEN: No objection from me, Mr. Chairman. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: All right. We'll do it. 

MR. ALLEN: Mr. Chairman, I did want to point out something in the article that 

was handed out this morning from the “Pocono Record.” It's the third paragraph where it says 

that although a number of government agencies have previously stated that they were in 

agreement, a spokesman for Senator Casey said that the administration still hasn't budged. So I 

wanted to correct the record on that to indicate that no federal agencies have actually agreed with 

the October 2010 FPRAC majority recommendation, but we are starting to work through some 

of the ones that would have been affected by that recommendation on a case-by-case basis. 

24 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Well, as long as you're correcting the record, let me 

also say, as far as I know, while the recommendation that was adopted in 2010 and confirmed in 

2012, hasn't been implemented, neither has it been turned down. Am I correct about that? 

MR. ALLEN: That's correct. 

MS. SIMON: And I'd add that we had verbal assurances from a couple of OPM 

Directors and other agency heads that they would support implementation. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: Okay. All right. Well, unless there's some other New 

Business I'm not aware of, it would be entirely in order for us to adjourn. Is there any objection 

to adjourning? Something else I learned from Robert's Rules of Order. 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN: If there's no objection to adjourning—going once, 

going twice, three times, we are adjourned—see you all next month. Thank you. 

