 

1 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

 

593rd FPRAC 

 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

Thursday, April 17, 2014 

 

 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management 

Washington, D.C. 20415 

 
 

Management Members: 
Mark Allen, OPM 
Tracy Schulberg, Navy 
Pamela Sokol, Army 
Stephanie Boyd, VA (via phone) 
 
Labor Members: 
Dennis Phelps, MTD 
Jacque Simon, AFGE 
Adair Gregory, NAGE 
Steven Landis, ACT 

ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recording Secretaries: 
 
 
 

Mike Eicher, OPM 
Terri Wallace, OPM 

 

 

Brenda Roberts, Designated Federal Officer, OPM 
Jeanne Jacobson, OPM 
Madeline Gonzalez, OPM 
Luis Lynch, AF 
Jim Brady, DoD 
Karl Fendt, DoD 

[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]

 

C O N T E N T S 

2 

a Government-wide strategy on advancing pay 
equality in the Federal Government 

Partnership for Public Service/Booz Allen 
Hamilton report: Building the Enterprise: A New 
Civil Service Framework, 593-OC-1 

                                                       Page 
I.    Opening/Announcements 
      • Introductions.....................................3 
      • Announcements.....................................4 
        - Reference to the Federal Wage System in the 
 
 
 
        - Cancellation of September 18th, 2014, meeting 
        - Link to OPM's memorandum to agencies transmitting 
    
 
 
II.   Review of the Minutes of 592nd Meeting.............11 
 
III.  Old Business.......................................11 
      a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2 
         - 2013 Update to Review Lee County, Virginia, 
           586-MGT-1 
      b. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 
         Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2 
         - 2013 Update to Definition of South Bend- 
           Mishawaka, IN-MI Metropolitan Statistical 
           Area, 586-MGT-2 
      c. Letter from the American Federation of Government 
         Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC 
         review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA 
         from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to 
         the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1 
      d. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC 
         Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1 
 
 
 
      e. Review of the Augusta and Portland, ME Federal 
         Wage System Wage Areas, 578-MGT-1 
         - Alternate Analysis of the Portland, ME Federal 
           Wage System Wage Area, 580-MGT-1 
 
IV.   New Business.......................................12 
      a. Definition of Toledo, OH Metropolitan Statistical 
         Area, 593-MGT-1 
      b. 2014 Update to Alternate Analysis of the 
         Portland, ME Federal Wage System Wage Area, 
         593-MGT-2    

    - 2013 Update to Definition of 
 
 

 Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC Metropolitan 
 Statistical Area, 588-MGT-1 

 

P R O C E E D I N G 

3 

  

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone, and 

welcome to our 593rd meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate 

Advisory Committee.  My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chair of the 

Committee. Let’s please go around the room and introduce 

ourselves, as we always do. 

 

 

 

 

 

Mark, let's start with you today. 

MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 

MS. SHULMAN:  Tracy Schulberg, Department of Navy.  

MS. SOKOL:  Pamela Sokol, Department of Army. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I know we're expecting a VA 

representative on the phone.  Is anybody on the phone? 

 

 

 

 

MS. BOYD:  Yes.  Stephanie Boyd from VA. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you.  Welcome. 

And now, Dennis? 

MR. PHELPS:  Dennis Phelps, Metal Trades Department 

with IBEW. 

 

 

 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  Jacque Simon, AFGE. 

MR. GREGORY:  Adair Gregory, NAGE. 

MR. LANDIS:  Steve Landis, ACT. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay, thank you. 

And if everyone else in the room could also please 

 

4 

introduce themselves? 

 

MS. ROBERTS:  Brenda Roberts, OPM, Designated Federal 

Officer. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 

MR. LYNCH:  Luis Lynch, Air Force. 

MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, DoD. 

MR. FENDT:  Karl Fendt, DoD. 

MS. JACOBSON: Jeanne Jacobson, OPM. 

MR. EICHER:  Mike Eicher, OPM. 

MS. WALLACE:  Terri Wallace, OPM. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Welcome again, and good 

morning, everyone. 

 

I want to start with a few announcements.  I thought 

it might be of interest to people to see the reference to the 

Federal Wage System that was in the recent Partnership for 

Public Service/Booz Allen Hamilton Report: Building the 

Enterprise: A New Civil Service Framework, which essentially is 

no reference at all.  It refers to the 200,000-plus FWS 

employees, and so there it is for you to look at.  Without 

editorializing on the report, which I know has been quite 

controversial, I just thought it would be interesting for you to 

see this very supposedly comprehensive plan where essentially 

 

5 

nothing was said about the FWS. 

 

The September 18th, 2014, meeting, for those of you 

who like to plan ahead, will not happen, so . . . 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  Why not? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, I'll be on vacation. 

MS. SIMON:  Boy, I got press calls on that. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Really? 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  I was like, "I don't know." 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Seriously? 

MS. SIMON:  Yes.  "What's the reason behind?"  I'm 

like, "I have no idea."  I looked to see if it was Rosh 

Hashanah.  It wasn't Rosh Hashanah.  I was like -- I didn't know 

what was going on, so it's something prosaic like vacation. 

 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah. 

MS. SIMON:  Got it. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Uh-oh.  Maybe I better not take 

it.  I don't know. 

 

MS. SIMON:  There are people who obviously really read 

the Federal Register, you know. 

 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Wow!  Interesting. 

MS. SIMON:  So there you go. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  All right.  Well, and then -- 

 

6 

 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  They are watching you, Mr. Chairman. 

MS. SIMON:  That's right. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah, I see that.  We are all 

under a microscope.  I guess we should have known that. 

 

And another announcement, I thought it would be of 

interest for people to see the memorandum that was sent recently 

by OPM Director Archuleta to all Federal agency heads regarding 

a government-wide strategy to address the gender pay gap in the 

Federal Government.  I have provided the link to that report. 

 

Jeanne, I hate to put you on the spot, but I know you 

had a lot to do with this report.  Is there any brief remark 

you'd like to make about the report for FPRAC? 

 

MS. JACOBSON:  Yes.  The President issued a memo last 

May asking OPM to take a look at the gender pay gap in the 

Federal workforce, with some input from agencies, actually a lot 

of input from agencies based on a review of their policies and 

practices for pay-setting, and our independent analysis of data 

reported to OPM by agencies. 

 

We identified a pay gap for white collar employees 

where women are paid generally 87 cents on the dollar compared 

to men, and that's for white collar.  We focused on the white 

collar pay gap for the purposes of this study based on the 

 

7 

direction of the President's memo, which asked us to look at the 

General Schedule, so we looked at the General Schedule and all 

other white collar jobs. 

 

The report lays out a number of initiatives that OPM 

is going to be undertaking, working very closely with agencies, 

to try to reduce the pay gap that we have. 

 

One of the things that we did find is that the pay gap 

is mostly due to occupational segregation or occupational 

differences where women tend to be in the lower-paid, lower-

graded jobs proportionately on a higher basis compared to men 

and men tend to be in the higher-graded, higher-paid jobs on a 

greater basis than women.  And that contributes to a significant 

portion of the gap. 

 

So that's generally -- and the direction on our 

recommendations take is to work with agencies to further 

increase transparency.  We're already very transparent in the 

Federal Government, so to further increase that and to work with 

agencies on improving outreach strategies to help recruit women 

to apply for jobs that are higher paid and some other 

initiatives, including agencies doing some of their own data 

analysis. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you.  Any questions?   

 

8 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  Yes, I do. 

Generally speaking, however, there is a very small gap 

between women and men who hold the same kinds of jobs in the 

Federal Government. 

 

 

MS. JACOBSON:  That's right. 

MS. SIMON:  And it's interesting.  I'm sure you saw 

this in the course of your research that virtually all of the 

studies from Heritage, Cato, American Enterprise Institute, and 

of course, CBO that have found a huge pay gap for GS workers in 

favor of Federal workers compared to the private sector, their 

methodology allows them to come up with those numbers, because 

they don't look at the jobs that the women and the men are in 

and since on average women in the Federal Government are more 

likely to be in professional and technical jobs than they are in 

the private sector, so women make more in the Federal Government 

than they do in the private sector, again, on average.  That's 

how they find Federal-employed women overpaid. 

 

MS. JACOBSON:  We did not, for the focus of the study, 

look at those studies.  We're familiar with those other studies, 

but we did not look at that data in terms of this study. 

 

MS. SIMON:  Well, it was so interesting to see the 

criticisms of the study, because they suddenly were so quick to 

 

9 

point out that this -- that this was focused on not women 

overall and men overall but actually looked at people by 

occupation -- 

 

 

MS. JACOBSON:  That's right. 

MS. SIMON:  -- which is an approach that ordinarily is 

shunned -- 

 

 

MS. JACOBSON:  Right.  And -- 

MS. SIMON:  -- when talking about the Federal/non-

Federal pay gap. 

 

MS. JACOBSON:  Right.  And for the purposes of our 

study, we did look at -- break it down to more discrete 

occupational groups for the very purpose of developing solutions 

to close the gap. 

 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  Well, it was a good study. 

MS. JACOBSON:  Thank you. 

MS. SIMON:  It was great, and it gives a lot of 

support to the approach that the Federal Salary Council uses. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you, Jeanne. 

I just want to add one more unscripted announcement on 

the issue of phone participation in our meetings, and of course, 

it is an option for people, but our intention is for it to be an 

alternative when you absolutely can't make it for some sort of 

 

10 

short-notice schedule conflict reason, not as a regular means of 

participation, please, because, of course, given the fact that 

we often have caucuses, we sometimes have working group meetings 

after the FPRAC meeting, it's an awkward way to do business.  It 

is certainly better than not participating, so I don't in any 

way want to discourage it when it's necessary, but when it's 

actually possible to physically be here in the room, it's way 

better.  That's all I wanted to say on that subject, unless 

anybody wants to add to it. 

 

That brings up the review of the transcript of our 

last meeting.  Are there any corrections that people want to 

bring to our attention beyond those that you have written to us 

about already? 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, is there any objection to 

adopting the transcript of the last meeting? 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing no objection, the 

transcript is adopted. 

 

And that brings up Old Business.  Is there anything in 

items (a) through (d) that people would like to talk about this 

morning? 

 

11 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, we can move on to item(e), 

which is also related to one of our New Business items, and I 

propose that we just wait a minute until we get to it under New 

Business, if that's all right. 

 

That brings up New Business, the first item of which 

is the definition of Toledo, Ohio, Metropolitan Statistical 

Area, 593-MGT-1. 

 

 

Mark, would you please summarize that one for us. 

MR. ALLEN:  Okay.  Under 593-MGT-1, we have taken a 

look at the Toledo, Ohio, Metropolitan Statistical Area, because 

it is currently split between two wages areas.  It is split 

between Detroit and Fort Wayne-Marion, Indiana. 

 

What the Management members are proposing in this 

proposal is that Fulton County be redefined from the Fort Wayne-

Marion wage area to the Detroit wage area’s area of application.  

There are currently no Federal Wage System employees in Fulton 

County, and the factors under our regulatory criteria that we 

base our recommendation on are distance – Fulton County is 

closer to Detroit -- and similarities in overall population, 

private sector employment, inside private industrial 

establishments.  This is a pretty simple proposal. 

 

12 

 

I should also mention that there are 188 Federal Wage 

System employees in the Toledo MSA, but they are all currently 

in the Detroit wage area, so this change would not affect them 

in any way. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there any discussion of this 

proposal?  Questions? 

 

MR. LANDIS:  How many Federal employees work in Fulton 

County?  So there are no FWS employees or anybody, or is this 

just more like an administrative move? 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  This is really just an administrative fix. 

Are you referring to how many Federal employees are 

there other than FWS? 

 

 

MR. LANDIS:  Yeah. 

We don't factor into our analyses how many General 

Schedule employees are in the county. 

 

 

MR. LANDIS:  Okay. 

MR. ALLEN:  There no doubt are some, though.  There 

are Federal employees in every county of the U.S. 

 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  Really? 

MR. ALLEN:  I think so. 

MR. PHELPS:  What is the reason to move Fulton to Fort 

Wayne and the other two counties to Detroit? 

 

13 

 

MR. ALLEN:  The other two counties have always been in 

the Detroit wage area. 

 

 

 

one? 

 

 

MR. PHELPS:  Oh, okay. 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there consensus to adopt this 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Yes?  So we have adopted 

593-MGT-1.  Wow! 

 

And that brings up item (b) under New Business, which 

is an issue that's been before us for quite a while, and that's 

the Portland, Maine, Federal Wage System wage area, which has 

lost its host activity and dwindled quite a bit in Federal Wage 

System employment.  It is in need of being abolished, and the 

question is what to do with it. 

 

We are now on our third document regarding the 

Portland wage area disposition.  The initial document is 578-

MGT-1, and that initial proposal was to fold the entirety of the 

Portland wage area into the Augusta, Maine, wage area.  

Questions were raised about that, and so an alternative analysis 

was conducted in 580-MGT-1, which instead revised the earlier 

proposal to move a couple of the counties into Portsmouth, New 

 

14 

Hampshire, and the remainder into Augusta, and today, we have 

593-MGT-2, which is an update of 580-MGT-1. 

 

Mark, would you like to summarize, elaborate on what I 

just said? 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Sure.  This one is actually pretty 

complicated.  What the Management proposal would result in with 

this wage area redefinition is actually splitting the current 

Portland wage area in two parts and defining half of it to the 

Augusta wage area and the other half to the Portsmouth, New 

Hampshire, wage area. 

 

Under 593-MGT-2, we have basically done an update 

based on having access to new metropolitan statistical area 

definitions and new commuting pattern information, and we have 

also updated the Federal Wage System employment numbers.  Under 

this Management proposal, what we recommend now is that, again, 

the Portland, Maine, wage area be abolished, because there are 

no longer enough employees in the wage areas to maintain a 

separate wage area. 

 

Cumberland and Sagadahoc Counties, Maine, would be 

defined to the Portsmouth, New Hampshire, survey area.  

Androscoggin, Maine, would be defined to the Augusta, Maine, 

survey area, and Franklin, Oxford, and Coos Counties would be 

 

15 

defined to the Augusta area of application. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And I suspect there will be 

questions and discussions about this one.  I have a few 

questions, but I will hold off and see if the members of the 

Committee have any questions or discussion to get us started on 

this one. 

 

MS. SIMON:  We had asked that all the counties be 

moved to Portsmouth, right? 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yeah.  That's one alternative approach 

that is not really without precedent in how the Federal Wage 

System is administered. 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  Right. 

MR. ALLEN:  But what we are recommending is that the 

approach we take is to define each county on its own basis to 

the appropriate wage area based on distance and the other 

regulatory criteria. 

 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  Well, we can't support this. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there a counter-proposal? 

MS. SIMON:  Yes.  Our counter-proposal is to take the 

whole abolished wage area and move it to the Portsmouth wage 

area and not divide up the counties, a few here, a few there. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any discussion of that? 

 

16 

 

I have a couple questions that refer to survey areas.  

Let me just get them out on the table.  I was looking back at 

the history of abolished wage areas, and what I noted from the 

three that we discussed in our working group that were abolished 

during the 1990s, was that in all three cases, the survey 

counties of the abolished wage areas became part of the area of 

application once the new consolidated wage area was formed.  In 

no case was a former survey county still a survey county, and 

this intuitively -- if FWS employment has dwindled, that kind of 

makes sense.  There is hardly anybody there anymore.  Why would 

there still be a survey in those counties? 

 

Whereas, in this case, I am noting that we are 

proposing, regardless of which version we look at, although 

perhaps, Jacque, I don't know what you had in mind with respect 

to survey counties, at least under the Management proposal, 

counties would remain survey counties, but as part of the wage 

area to which they have been assigned.  And I am just wondering, 

for example, in the case of Portsmouth, which has a very large 

FWS employment, what the impact would be from adding a new 

survey county or two to the survey area of that wage area. 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  Of Augusta? 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Of either one or both. 

 

17 

 

 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  Okay.  Well, I guess -- 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  In the Management proposal -- 

MS. SIMON:  -- we didn't estimate that, but -- 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And it seems to me we just need to 

have some sense of what -- I mean, at least I would want to 

know.  I would certainly be interested to know what impact that 

would have on the wage survey results. 

 

MR. ALLEN:  One of the concerns driving the Management 

proposal to add counties to the survey areas for the wage areas 

where the counties would be added is in a way kind of beefing up 

the amount of survey data that are available. 

 

The Augusta wage area would benefit by having an 

additional survey county added to it. 

 

I believe there is a very large employer, a private-

sector employer.  Is it in Sagadahoc County, Jim? 

 

 

MR. BRADY:  Right. 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes.  That is also used as the basis for 

Monroney Amendment data, data from that private-sector employer 

to other wage areas. 

 

 

MR. PHELPS:  Who is that employer? 

MR. ALLEN:  I can't say who the employer is because of 

confidentiality agreements with participants, but it's an 

 

18 

employer that's a very large employer that we would not want to 

lose. 

 

I agree with the Chairman that in general terms under 

a prevailing rate system, if there are no Federal Wage System 

employees in a county, there is not really a good place for 

continuing to conduct the survey there, because we are trying to 

establish what prevailing wage levels are, but in some cases, 

there are large industrial employers in the U.S. that have a 

dominant influence in an area that is larger than just that wage 

area or that county. 

 

So it's beneficial to the system as a whole to 

continue having that county as a survey county, regardless of 

which area it's defined to.  We don't know the impact in the 

long term of what that would be. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  But as to Monroney, can't you 

still use the data from that large employer?  Why do you need to 

survey the entire county? 

 

MR. BRADY:  We would not be able to use the data.  It 

is not available to be used if it is not surveyed. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Are you saying throughout the 

country that everywhere Monroney applies, you are only using 

data from a particular wage area’s survey area? 

 

19 

 

MR. BRADY:  Sure.  There is no data on counties that 

we do not survey. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right.  But you don't -- okay. 

MS. SIMON:  You don't just survey any county for 

Monroney purposes? 

 

 

 

 

 

MR. BRADY:  That's correct. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  But I thought the whole idea -- 

MS. SIMON:  But you could, right? 

MR. BRADY:  No. 

MS. SIMON:  There is something in the law that 

precludes that? 

 

MR. BRADY:  It is not a survey county.  Not every 

county in the United States is a survey county. 

 

MS. SIMON:  I'm well aware that not every county is a 

survey county. 

 

I'm just wondering is there is some rule that if you 

needed data under Monroney -- could that be the sole reason for 

conducting a survey in a county? 

 

MR. BRADY:  I can't answer that question.  I don't 

know, but I know that predefined data in our surveys that is 

applied has the Monroney Application for areas where we have 

Monroney.  So Monroney is a specialized industry, and the basis 

 

20 

where that industry exists, we find areas typically do apply 

that data, so the outside data that you don't collect wouldn't 

be necessary. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So then what would you do?  Go to 

the next nearest area? 

 

 

 

 

 

MR. BRADY:  Yes. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So go to where you are surveying? 

MR. BRADY:  Go to wage areas until you have it. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah. 

MR. BRADY:  In this particular case, Monroney is 

applied in Portsmouth.  We have a very large shipyard.  We 

collect specialized data in what is currently the Portland, 

Maine, wage area, and that data is applied to the Portland wage 

schedule.  It impacts – if my memory serves me correct, it 

impacts Grades 1 through 8 and causes them to be higher than the 

Portsmouth data by itself would be.  However, it does not affect 

Grades 9 through 15, but it does affects Grades 1 through 8.  

And it's used as Monroney data. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  But what would happen if that 

county was no longer surveyed? 

 

MR. BRADY:  Well, you wouldn't have that specialized 

data to apply. 

 

21 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So you would have to go to the 

next nearest wage area-- it might be who knows where offhand. 

 

 

 

MR. BRADY:  Right. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So -- 

MR. BRADY:  The original proposal placed the county in 

the Augusta survey area.  The probable effect of adding that was 

it would raise Augusta across the board.  That's the probable 

effect. 

 

The current proposal has it going to Portsmouth.  

That's a very -- you know, two surveys mining that part of Maine 

with New Hampshire is very large.  It's a little bit difficult 

to say exactly what would happen, but it is the positive in 

Grades 1 through 8 in Portsmouth. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  But it’s positive based on looking 

at just one employer? 

 

 

MR. BRADY:  Yes, that's correct. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  As opposed to looking at all the 

data from the county. 

 

MR. BRADY:  That is absolutely -- there is another 80 

or 65 participants that could have a number to sway on. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So clearly, the sides don't agree 

on this one. 

 

22 

 

 

Go ahead, Dennis. 

MR. PHELPS:  But that employer is used for Monroney 

for the majority of people who have work in Portsmouth anyway, 

correct?  So adding it into the survey area -- 

 

 

 

MR. BRADY:  Well, then it would totally be useless. 

MR. PHELPS:  Oh? 

MR. BRADY:  You would have to understand a little bit 

more about Monroney.  Monroney grabs a portion of data and 

brings it into the wage area, not the entire data.  If you put 

it in the survey area, then the entire data comes into 

Portsmouth. 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Any more questions or discussion? 

MR. ALLEN:  I think it may be useful for us to do some 

kind of further analysis and see what the impact would be having 

that county added to the Portsmouth survey area and see what the 

impact on the wage rates would be under the pay line.  And 

likewise, it may be beneficial to see if we can come up with any 

way of looking at how the expanded survey area for the Augusta 

wage area would look like, what impact would be there. 

 

But having said that, for this fiscal year, we are 

operating under a pay floor increase and a pay cap, which limits 

Federal Wage System wage schedules being adjusted to 1 percent, 

 

23 

and the President's Budget Proposal for FY 2015 contains the 

same provision to limit wage schedule investments to 1 percent.  

So at least in the near term, what we would do in the Portsmouth 

wage survey would have no impact, because there would just be a 

1 percent adjustment, most likely. 

 

Now, having said that, in the long term, if there is 

no floor increase or no pay cap provision in place, then the 

issue of the survey area for the Portsmouth wage area will 

become very important to employees there and to agencies. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And just for clarification, what 

is Labor's proposal with respect to this?  As I understand, you 

want to combine all of Portland with Portsmouth, but what is 

Labor’s proposal with respect to the Portsmouth survey area? 

 

MS. SIMON:  Given what Mark just said, that he is 

going to do further analysis, why don't we hold off on making an 

alternative proposal until we get this new information? 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, then is this as far -

- go ahead. 

 

MR. PHELPS:  Also, if you could, the other survey 

county that you were looking at, do further analysis on that as 

well, so we know the results.  You said there were two counties 

that were surveyed. 

 

24 

 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yes.  That would be three. 

MR. PHELPS:  Yes. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  There are three survey counties in 

the current Portland wage area.  The Management proposal is to 

move one of those survey counties to Augusta and the other two 

survey counties to Portsmouth. 

 

 

MR. ALLEN:  That's correct. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So there is potential for impact 

on both wage surveys -- 

 

MR. PHELPS:  Further analysis on all three of them 

then? 

 

MR. ALLEN:  Yes.  We will see what we can come up with 

for Cumberland and Sagadahoc Counties. 

 

The reason we are recommending that Cumberland be 

added to the survey area is because a host activity at 

Portsmouth Naval Shipyard would have to send teams out through 

Cumberland County to get to Sagadahoc County, anyway, and we 

also most likely would not want to split the Portland-South 

Portland-Biddeford, Maine, metropolitan statistical area. 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And if we are doing more research 

anyway, can I ask if there is interest in digging a little bit 

more into the history?  Because with respect to the three 

 

25 

abolished wage areas we know of from the 1990s, as mentioned 

earlier, none of the survey counties from those abolished wage 

areas remained survey counties in their new wage areas -- they 

became area of application counties. 

 

Are we interested to know if there is any other 

history digging back further, which might be a research project?  

I don't know how big, Madeline, a project like that would be, 

but is there any history of ever continuing a survey county from 

an abolished wage area as a survey county in a new wage area?  

Is there interest in that? 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  Yes. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I don’t want to make a project 

that is not -- 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  No, I think that's an important question. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So this might be as far as we can 

take this issue today. 

 

 

MS. SIMON:  I think so. 

MR. LANDIS:  I have a question.  On page 2, it shows 

the number of workers in the four counties that Management is 

requesting to move to Augusta.  Is there a page like that for 

the other two to move into Portsmouth with the number of 

employees in it? 

 

26 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I assume we know the information, 

but I didn't see it presented -- 

 

MR. ALLEN:  It’s not.  It’s not included in this, 

because we did the analysis for the Portland MSA separately, and 

almost all of the employees in that metropolitan area are with 

the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard.  Of course, it's already with the 

Portsmouth wage area, survey area, but we can present the 

information on the remaining employees in those other two 

counties as well.  They're just not included in this, because we 

didn't do a county-by-county analysis for those two counties. 

 

 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Anything else on this one? 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there any other New Business 

item that people want to bring up? 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, are there objections to 

adjourning? 

 

 

[No audible response.] 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing no objection, we are 

adjourned, and we will see you all next month.  Thank you very 

much. 

