FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

1 

575th FPRAC 

Thursday, June 21, 2012 

Office of Personnel Management


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates:
Management Members
MARK ALLEN, Office of Personnel Management
  
SETH SHULMAN, Department of Defense
  
DARLENE FREEMAN, Department of Air Force
  
MICHAEL CHASE, Department of Veterans Affairs 
  
 
Labor Members 

DENNIS PHELPS, MTD

STEVEN FISHER, ACT 


Room 5526 

Washington, D.C. 

Office of Personnel Management


  
   
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors:
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Recording Secretary:  FEBBIE GRAY 
 
 
[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.] 
 
 

JEROME MIKOWICZ, Designated Federal Official,
MADELINE GONZALEZ, Office of Personnel Management

TERRI AVONDET, Office of Personnel Management

MIKE EICHER, Office of Personnel Management

LINDSEY O'KEEFE, Office of Personnel Management

JIM BRADY, Department of Defense

GARY KISTNER, Department of Defense

HANK ROVAN, Department of Defense

STEVE LANDIS, ACT 






C O N T E N T S 

2 

Page 

 
 
 
I. 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

  

Opening/Announcements
• Introductions.....................................3 

• Announcements.....................................6 


- Director John Berry's responses to letters from 
 

   

- Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee 
 
- May 11, 2012, memorandum to the FPRAC Chairman 
 

Representative Jon Runyan, AFGE National
President John Gage, and FPRAC Labor members
who wrote in support of the 2010 AFGE proposal,
575-OC-1 
[The incoming letters were provided to the members at
the April 19, 2012, meeting.]
Annual Summary 2011, 575-OC-2
from Colonel James P. Ross at New Boston Air 
Force Station in support of the 2010 AFGE
proposal, 575-OC-3 
- Letter from Mr. William Hanrahan, Master of the 
 
Ranger III, regarding the pay policy covering
DOI's Wage Board employees at NPS's Isle Royale
National Park, 575-OC-4
- Letters from employees at Tobyhanna Army Depot 
 
in support of FPRAC recommendation to
consolidate FWS wage areas that lie within GS
locality pay areas, 575-OC-5
Director Berry available on ACT's Web site,
575-ACT-1 
consolidate FWS wage areas that lie within GS
locality pay areas 
 

- Update on draft proposed regulation to 
 
 

- Electronic copy of the March 2012 FPRAC Report to 
 

 

II.  Review of the Minutes of the 574th Meeting.............11 

 
III.  Old Business.......................................11 


a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2

- Total Employment in the Eastern Tennessee
- List of FWS Wage Areas with Fewer than 500
- Review of Criteria for Defining Appropriated 

Wages Area by County, 566-OPM-1
Employees, 566-OPM-2

 

 C O N T E N T S (continued) 

3 

Page 

 
      

Fund Wage Areas, 545-OC-1 [REPRINT]
b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns
- FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on 
Survey Issues Work Group, 561-OC-1
c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal
Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1
d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI

Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2

e. Letter from the American Federation of Government 
Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1 

   
IV.  New Business.......................................12 


 

         

a. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC

Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1

b. Definition of Youngstown-Warren-Boardman, OH-PA
Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-2
c. Proposal for FPRAC review of the Federal Wage
System Appropriated Fund and Non-appropriated
Fund Operating Manuals, 575-AFGE-1 

 

 

4 

P R O C E E D I N G S 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone, and 

As we usually do, why don't we go around the room so 

MR. CHASE:  Michael Chase, VA. 
MR. PHELPS:  Dennis Phelps for the Metal Trades 

MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Seth Shulman, Department of Defense. 
MS. FREEMAN:  Darlene Freeman, Department of Air 

 
welcome to this 575th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate 
Advisory Committee.  My name is Sheldon Friedman, and I am the 
chairman of the committee. 
 
that you may introduce yourselves.  Mark, would you start, 
please? 
 
 
 
Force. 
 
 
Department. 
 
 
 
also introduce themselves? 
 
 
Federal Official. 

MR. FISHER:  Steve Fisher, ACT. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you. 
And if the folks around the sides of the room would 

MS. GONZALEZ:  Madeline Gonzalez with OPM. 
MR. MIKOWITCZ:  Jerry Mikowicz, OPM, Designated 

 

5 

MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, Department of Defense. 

MR. KISTNER:  Gary Kistner, Department of Defense. 

MR. ROVAN:  Hank Rovan, Department of Defense. 

MS. O'KEEFE:  Lindsey O'Keefe, OPM. 

MS. GRAY:  Febbie Gray, OPM. 

MR. EICHER:  Mike Eicher, OPM. 

MS. AVONDET:  Terri Avondet, OPM. 

MR. LANDIS:  Steve Landis, ACT. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Thank you. 

I just want to recognize Febbie.  This is her last 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
meeting with us.  We will miss her.  But I understand, Febbie, 
that we'll be taken care of in your absence, right? 
 
 
endeavor. 
 
 
think. 
 

MS. GRAY:  Yes. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good luck to you in your new 

MS. GRAY: Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Somewhere else in our building, I 

MS. GRAY:  Yes. 
[Laughter.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I know we have a rather lightly 

 
attended meeting today, but I guess let's just forge ahead. 

 

6 

The next item is the final Annual Summary for 2011 

There are a bunch of announcements on the agenda, and 
 
you have the documents pertaining to the announcements in your 
folder and should have received them electronically ahead of 
time.  The first one is Director Berry's responses to several 
letters, one from Representative Runyan, one from AFGE president 
Gage, and the letter from the FPRAC Labor members.  All of these 
letters pertain to the proposal to combine FWS wage areas that 
lie inside of GS locality pay areas.  The incoming letters, I 
think you have from previous meetings. 
 
that we approved at our April meeting, and so you have the final 
version in your folder. 
 
regarding FWS workers at the New Boston Air Force Station in New 
Hampshire.  He is concerned about the pay disparity issue 
between Wage Grade and General Schedule employees who work at 
the same location but are paid as if they are in two different 
locations.  A response to his letter is winding its way through 
our system, and we'll share that once it's finally cleared. 
I also received a letter from a Mr. William Hanrahan, 
 
who is Master of the USNPS Ranger III vessel.  I think that the 
rank of Master is sort of like a Captain but I'm not sure. 

I received a memorandum from a Colonel James Ross 

 

7 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  The vessel transports both 

MR. ALLEN:  Mr. Chairman, it's possible that this may 

The Department of the Interior Headquarters staff is 

MR. ALLEN:  It is. The ranks of Master and Captain are 

 
similar. 
 
passengers and cargo to and from the Isle Royale National Park 
in Lake Superior, and Mr. Hanrahan raises an issue concerning 
the members of his crew, who are  FWS employees.  Madeline is 
researching that issue.  Presumably, it will wind its way to us 
at some point. 
 
not actually be an issue for the committee's attention. 
 
currently working with the National Park Service staff to figure 
out what the best pay approach is for the crew of the vessel. 
 
it's a set-aside wage schedule.  It's not been part of the 
Federal Wage System since the Federal Wage System was created, 
but the set-aside wage schedule was allowed to continue, and the 
rates on the wage schedule are making it difficult to recruit 
and retain sufficient personnel to staff the vessel in a manner 
that Master Hanrahan believes is safe.  So we will keep the 
Committee informed about what's going on with this, but it's 
possible that it might be resolved without OPM's or the 

The current pay system approach for the vessel is that 

 

8 

Next item, under 575-OC-5, we got a large batch of 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Please let me know the end 

Committee’s need for further involvement. 
 
result of this issue, since Master Hanrahan contacted me for 
help. 
 
letters from FWS workers at Tobyhanna, I think in the vicinity 
of 400 letters.  We are working out the logistics of how to 
share those with the members of the Committee.  It appears that 
the easiest and best way to do that is to scan them and put them 
on a CD.  We thought we'd have them by today, but it looks like 
it will be our next meeting, perhaps, before we will be able to 
share them. 
 
folks at ACT have beaten Amazon.com to the punch and put our 
working group report on their Web page, so we have that to 
report. 
Terry Garnett sent us a letter with the link, which I 
 
have shared with you, if anybody is interested in an electronic 
copy of that working group report. 
Now, I would like to call on Jerry to see if there is 
 
any update on the draft proposed regulation to consolidate FWS 
wage areas. 

Continuing on to the next item, under 575-ACT-1, the 

 

9 

MR. MIKOWICZ:  I would like to report that the 
 
proposed regulations have cleared through the OPM program 
offices that ordinarily clear regulations, and they now reside 
with the Director of OPM. 
I had an occasion to speak with the Director Tuesday 
 
afternoon along with his Deputy Chief of Staff, Justin Johnson, 
and they acknowledged and confirmed that the proposed 
regulations are in fact with the Office of the Director and had 
no further comment. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you. 
 
I guess just two other quick announcements, while I've 
 
got this captive audience.  The Government Accountability Office 
is working on a report on Federal pay comparability, which I 
believe will be released to the public very soon, if it hasn't 
already.  It may be of some interest to this audience. 
MR. MIKOWICZ:  It has not yet been released, but --
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  It is anticipated soon. 
 
And so people will probably hear about it when it 
 
comes out, but I just want to give folks a heads-up.  It is 
something that was requested by Representative Issa, I believe, 
last March or thereabouts. 
 

And I just want to report briefly that I attended, 

 

10 

And I felt badly for Rex.  I thought he did a pretty 

just in the audience, an event that was sponsored by the 
Partnership for Public Service on June 13th, a Federal pay 
debate, which featured several of the folks who have done pay 
comparability studies, Federal, non-Federal, this fellow Andrew 
Biggs from American Enterprise Institute, somebody representing 
the CBO, and also Rex Facer, a member of the Federal Salary 
Council. 
 
good job in actual fact, but I think his remarks were rather 
badly distorted in the Federal Times. 
It was an interesting session, and people who want to 
 
learn more about this whole sort of debate and controversy might 
be interested in taking a look at the Web link or I believe they 
videotaped the event. 
 
positions of the AEI fellow or even respond adequately to the 
CBO, but it was an interesting event.  People might find it of 
some use to take a look at that. 
 
minutes of our April meeting.  Have people had a chance to 
review them, and are there any further corrections or changes? 
 

So, anyway, enough of that.  That brings us up to the 

There was not much of an opportunity to rebut the 

[No audible response.] 

 

11 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Unless there's some 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing none, the minutes are 

That brings up old business items, of which we have 

I believe we had decided that all these items would be 

 
objection, we will adopt those minutes. 
 
 
adopted. 
 
five. 
 
discussed in the working group, unless there's some comments 
here that people want to make about any of them.  It might also 
be useful to have guidance about priority, the order in which we 
address them in the working group, if anyone has thoughts about 
that, and if not, we will just move on to new business. 
 
 
two issues, both of which involve the regulation that MSAs 
should not be split between Federal Wage System wage areas 
except  in very unusual circumstances.  If we can address them 
by consensus in here, that is great.  If not, my suggestion 
would be to refer them to the working group, because there's a 
similar issue already there, and the general question of what to 
do about this long-standing regulation is something that is on 

[No audible response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Under new business, we have 

 

12 

the table in the working group. 
 
So if I could ask Mark to first summarize for us Item 
A. under New Business, Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, 
North Carolina, MSA 575-MGT-1. 
MR. ALLEN:  Okay.  I would agree that it might not be 
 
necessary or advisable to move forward on these two new agenda 
items at the Committee meeting today, since we already are going 
to be considering the usefulness of the regulatory criterion for 
MSAs as they apply to areas of application, but if everybody 
wants to move forward with these today at this Committee, that's 
fine.  But I would also note we don't have a quorum. 
 
these? 
 
 
 
 
 
quickly. 
 
 

MR. ALLEN:  No. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is that under our rules? 
MR. FISHER:  We don't have enough labor here, I think. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So in view of that --
MR. ALLEN:  I can introduce them, anyways, just 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So we couldn’t actually adopt 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, okay. 
MR. ALLEN:  It's just a matter of reading. 
[Laughter.] 

 

13 

MR. ALLEN:  I try not to be pedantic. 
Under 575-MGT-1, the Management members recommend that 

 
 
Alexander and Catawba Counties be redefined to the Asheville 
wage area’s area of application. 
Alexander, Burke, Caldwell, and Catawba Counties, 
 
North Carolina, comprise the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, North 
Carolina, MSA, and that MSA is currently split between 
Asheville, North Carolina, and Charlotte, North Carolina, wage 
areas.  Under OPM's regulatory criterion, unless there's some 
exceptional reason for having the MSA split, all the counties 
should be combined under one wage area. 
 
to move Mercer County to the Cleveland wage area’s area of 
application. Trumbull and Mahoning Counties, Ohio, and Mercer 
County, Pennsylvania, comprise the Youngstown-Warren-Boardman, 
Ohio-Pennsylvania MSA.  The Youngstown-Warren-Boardman, Ohio-
Pennsylvania MSA is split between the Cleveland, OH, and 
Pittsburgh, PA, wage areas.  And again, as with the previous 
case, that entire MSA under OPM's regulatory criterion currently 
should be combined under just one wage area. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, I guess we will just 
 
defer any further action on those, since we don't really have a 

Under 575-MGT-2, we have a Management recommendation 

 

 

14 

The other new business item is something that AFGE has 

quorum. 
 
proposed, which is to review the Federal Wage System 
Appropriated and Nonappropriated Fund Operating Manuals, which I 
think is an interesting and in many ways good idea, but since 
the AFGE members are not here, we probably ought to just kick 
that can down the road too. 
MR. ALLEN:  I had a brief conversation with Jacque a 
 
couple of weeks ago about some questions that she received that 
were not covered in the Appropriated Fund Operating Manual or 
were insufficiently covered, but I haven't heard what the exact 
proposals would be for adding something to the Operating Manuals 
or whether it might be more appropriate to add something to 
regulation.  Regulation tends to be more permanent, because of 
the Administrative Procedures Act public comment period. 
 
look at it and see what the appropriate way of handling would 
be, with the Committee's advice. 
 
next time. 
 
 

Unless there is any further -- yes, sir? 
MR. SHULMAN:  I just wanted to make note of a new 

So once we do have something before us, you can take a 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So we will address that 

 

15 

member of the wage staff, appropriated fund side.  Mr. Gary 
Kistner, who introduced himself up front, has taken over for 
Karl Fendt in his analyst role.  He was on the NAF side of the 
house until a couple weeks ago. 
 

MR. ALLEN:  Another turncoat. 
[Laughter.] 
MR. KISTNER:  Good morning, everyone. 
MR. SHULMAN:  This is his first and certainly not his 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Welcome.  Thank you for joining 

MR. KISTNER:  Thank you. 
MR. CHASE:  This is my first meeting as well.  Ann 

 
 
last FPRAC meeting, so I want everyone to know who he is. 
 
us. 
 
 
Marie Hannon was the VA representative.  She had an advancement 
opportunity at the Department of Homeland Security, which she 
took advantage of, and she started there this week.  So I'll be 
representing VA from here.  I am the Human Resources Management 
Policy and Planning person for Veterans Affairs. 
 
you for joining us.  We appreciate that. 
Well, unless there's some objection -- well, is there 
 
any other new business?  Are there any other items people want 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And welcome to you as well.  Thank 

 

16 

to bring up?  If not, we can begin our working group meeting in 
10 minutes in the Small Pendleton Room.  Is there a motion to 
adjourn? 
 
 
 
adjourned. 
 

MR. PHELPS:  Motion to adjourn. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Motion seconded. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Hearing no objection, we are 

[Whereupon, the 575th FPRAC meeting was adjourned.] 

•-•-• 

 

