1 

565th FPRAC 

Room 5526 

Office of Personnel Management 

Washington, D.C. 

Thursday, July 21, 2011 

FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTENDANCE: 
 
Members/Alternates: 
  Management Members 
  MARK ALLEN, Office of Personnel Management 
  SETH SHULMAN, Department of Defense 
  R. LAMAR WILLIAMS, Department of Navy 
  BARBARA WALKER, Department of Army 
  THURSTAN HUNTER, Department of Veterans Affairs 
 
  Labor Members 
  WILLIAM FENAUGHTY, Metals Trade Department 
  J. DAVID COX, AFGE 
  JACQUELINE SIMON, AFGE 
  SARAH SUSZCZYK, NAGE 
  TERRY GARNETT, ACT 
 
Staff Specialists and Visitors: 
  TERRI AVONDET, Office of Personnel Management 
  JEROME MIKOWICZ, Office of Personnel Management 
  CHARLES D. GRIMES III, Office of Personnel Management 
  BOB HENDLER, Office of Personnel Management 
  CHRIS WALLACE, Office of Personnel Management 
  JILL CRISSMAN, Office of Personnel Management 
  TAMMY VANKEUREN, U.S. Air Force 
  STEVE RUMBLE, Department of Defense 
  JIM BRADY, Department of Defense 
  H.L. "Hank" ROVAN, Department of Defense 
  KARL FENDT, Department of Defense 
  BECKY CHAVES, Department of Defense 
  CRAIG JERABEK, Department of Defense 
  DENNIS PHELPS, Metal Trade Department 
  ANN MARIE HANNON, Department of Veterans Affairs 
  
Recording Secretary:  VANNESSA BROWN 
 
 [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.] 

 

 

C O N T E N T S 

 
 
                                                        Page 
 
I.    Opening/Announcements 
      • Introductions......................................3 
      • Announcements 
        - Director John Berry's response to Representative 
          Jon Runyan's May 16, 2011, letter, 565-OC-1......5 
        - FPRAC working group on Director's memo 
          (563-OPM-1), 565-OC-2............................5 
        - Letter to Director John Berry from 2 New Jersey 
          Senators and 13 New Jersey Congressmen in 
          support of AFGE's proposal, 565-OC-3.............5 
 
II.   Review of the Minutes of the 564th Meeting...........6 
 
III.  Old Business 
      • Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2..........7 
      • Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns 
        - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on  
          Survey Issues Work Group, 561-OC-1..............11 
      • Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal 
        Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1.....12 
      • Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI 
        Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2..........19 
      • Definition of College Station-Bryan, TX 
        Metropolitan Statistical Area, 564-MGT-2..........19 
      • Abolishment of Montgomery, Pennsylvania, as a 
        Nonappropriated Fund Federal Wage System 
        Wage Area, 564-MGT-3..............................21 
      • Letter from the American Federation of Government 
        Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC 
        review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA 
        from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to 
        the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1............32 
  
 

•-•-• 

2 

 

 

 

3 

P R O C E E D I N G S 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Good morning, everyone.  Welcome to 

I'll start with you, Bill. 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  Hi.  Good morning.  Bill Fenaughty with 

 
 
this 565th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory 
Committee.  My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chairman of the 
Committee, and as we usually do, why don't we go around the room 
and introduce ourselves. 
 
 
Metal Trades Division. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
introduce yourself. 
 

MS. SIMON:  Jacque Simon, AFGE. 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Sara Suszczyk, NAGE. 
MR. GARNETT:  Terry Garnett, ACT. 
MR. ALLEN:  Mark Allen with OPM. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Seth Shulman, DoD. 
MR. WILLIAMS:  Lamar Williams, Navy. 
MS. WALKER:  Barbara Walker, Army. 
MR. HUNTER:  Thurstan Hunter, VA. 
MR. MIKOWICZ:  Jerry Mikowicz, OPM. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And right on cue, David, to 

MR. COX:  J. David Cox, AFGE, and I am just like 

 

 

4 

[Laughter.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  You're not the only one. 
Terri, why don't you start going around that way. 
MS. AVONDET:  Terri Avondet with OPM. 
MR. HENDLER:  Bob Hendler with OPM. 
MR. RUMBLE:  Steve Rumble, Department of Defense. 
MR. JERABEK:  Craig Jerabek, DoD. 
MR. BRADY:  Jim Brady, DoD. 
MR. FENDT:  Karl Fendt, DoD. 
MS. VANKEUREN:  Tammy Vankeuren, Air Force. 
MS. CHAVES:  Becky Chaves, DoD. 
MR. ROVAN:  Hank Rovan, DoD. 
MS. BROWN:  Vannessa Brown, OPM. 
MS. HANNON:  Ann Marie Hannon, VA. 
MS. CRISSMAN:  Jill Crissman, OPM. 
MR. WALLACE:  Chris Wallace, OPM. 
MR. PHELPS:  Dennis Phelps, IBEW, Metal Trades 

swelteringly warm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Department. 
 
started. 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So I think we can get 

 

 

5 

The law requires a review every 2 years of FPRAC's 

Since I wouldn't think it's fair to discuss it now 

There's one new piece of paper that I passed around 

 
that didn't make it into our agenda or kits.  I at least want to 
tell you about it. 
 
labor union representation, and we actually finally got one done. 
 It hadn't been done since 2002.  I know that's more than 2 years 
ago, and the results essentially are there would be no change in 
the makeup of the committee. The analysis is here for you all to 
see. 
 
since people haven't even seen it, if there's any questions or 
discussion we can have it, or else we can defer that until next 
time, but at least you've got it.  It's been reviewed and 
approved by the Director. 
Also, a couple letters.  One, Director Berry's response 
 
to a letter from Representative Runyan, it was actually presented 
here at the meeting before last, if people remember, and then 
subsequent to that, the Director received a letter from the, I 
believe, entire New Jersey congressional delegation, all the 
Senators and Representatives, regarding the matter at the Joint 
Base in New Jersey.  And we have copied that for you, and we'll 

 

 

6 

There is also a memo about the proposed new working 

also share the Director's response once that has gone out. 
 
group pursuant to discussions we've had in here about how to move 
ahead on the study that has been requested by our Director 
regarding possible implementation of the recommendation that we 
sent him last October concerning consolidation of wage areas that 
lie within GS locality pay areas. 
And I know we've had quite a bit of back-and-forth on 
 
this.  I guess we do actually need to take action to set up this 
working group if we're now in agreement on the wording of this 
mandate, so why don't I push that down a little bit further in 
the agenda. 
On speculation, I went ahead and set up a working group 
 
meeting for after this FPRAC meeting, but this body does in fact 
need to agree to set up the working group, so we'll come back to 
that. 
 
meeting.  Are there any edits people have beyond those that 
you've already sent in? 
 
[No response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And if not, is it safe to assume 
 

That brings up review of the transcript of our last 

 

 

7 

Is there anything new on Lee County, Virginia?  Are 

MS. SIMON:  I've been looking into the Lee County 

I think Lee County may be very, very close to that 

I see nods.  Okay.  We have adopted the transcript. 
That brings us to old business.  We have a growing list 

that the transcript of our last meeting is acceptable? 
 
 
of things that at some point or other, we do need to deal with, 
hopefully some of them we may be able to resolve today.  Let's 
just see, and let me just take them in order. 
 
people ready to do anything on that? 
 
issue, and I know that in 2008 when we had our working group that 
considered changes in criteria for the establishment or merger or 
whatever of wage areas, we set 300 FWS employees as the minimum 
to justify the existence of a separate wage area. 
 
minimum, and given the sort of ongoing problems emerging out of 
that wage area, I was wondering if there would be some interest 
in revisiting that 300 criterion, really just to -- you know, in 
the context of consideration of other changes to wage areas.  I 
just think that -- 
 
 

Am I right, Mark?  Are there right around 300? 
MR. ALLEN:  It was around 300.  I think it was a little 

 

 

8 

MS. SIMON:  Right. 
MR. ALLEN:  -- which is what Lee County is part of. 
MS. SIMON:  Exactly. 
MR. ALLEN:  If we do start to talk about the criteria 

bit above 300 the last time we met.  It's probably worthwhile to 
do a data run from I think the March 2011 Central Personnel Data 
File and see what the exact number is now, but we're discussing 
in this case the Eastern Tennessee wage area -- 
 
 
 
 
again, we would have to look at all wage areas that were -- 
 
 
 
 
County issue? 
MS. SIMON:  Well, I think the Lee County issue is sort 
 
of raising the question.  I think the difference between 300 and 
350 is not necessarily a justification for retaining a wage area, 
given the costs associated with separate surveys and the costs 
associated with having a separate wage area. 
 
employers within Lee County, I think it's reasonable to revisit 

MS. SIMON:  Of course. 
MR. ALLEN:  -- around that level. 
MS. SIMON:  Of course. 
MR. ALLEN:  So this wouldn't be focused on just the Lee 

And given the sort of retention issues at least at some 

 

 

9 

I mean, given our existing criteria, you can't move Lee 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Someone just refresh my 

MS. SIMON:  We actually did change some criteria. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  At the work group level, but then 

that. 
 
County.  You can't do anything. 
 
institutional memory here.  I know I remember reading when I came 
on board that there was a work group in 2008 that had -- it was 
looking at criteria, changes in criteria. 
 
 
-- 
 
 
 
 
 
send the Director a recommendation, or what was the disposition? 
 
committee should consider making recommendations to the Director 
of OPM if the wage area fell below 300 employees at any time, and 
the thinking back then was that there were -- and there still are 
-- survey resources that, of course, need to be used when any 

MS. SIMON:  Well, we made -- 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- it never -- 
MS. SIMON:  -- recommendations. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- became an -- 
Okay.  And did FPRAC ever actually act on those and 

MR. ALLEN:  There was a recommendation that this 

 

 

10 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So this never actually resulted in 

MR. ALLEN:  No. 
MS. SIMON:  So we have not abolished any wage areas 

survey is conducted.  And those survey resources were becoming 
scarcer back at that time, and that's certainly not changed. 
 
That was the main driver behind FPRAC making that 
recommendation to itself.  We did not change the regulatory 
criteria. 
 
a recommendation to the Director? 
 
 
because they fell under 300?  I thought we had. 
 
 
 
New London wage area that was right around maybe 280 or so 
employees, and the committee decided that it was not appropriate 
to abolish that wage area, combining another one, at that time. 
 
employees.  So, if we do want to revisit that, we can. 
 
 
that would be a change in the regulatory criteria that OPM uses 

MR. ALLEN:  No, we have not. 
MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
MR. ALLEN:  We took a look at the -- I believe it's the 

But there are several areas that are below 300 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
MR. ALLEN:  I do just need to remind everybody that 

 

 

11 

MS. SIMON:  Well, it's not that we can't, but we could 

for defining wage areas, and because of that, and because we're 
under a pay freeze, we can't really change anything through the 
regulatory process for the next year and a half. 
 
certainly propose it. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So it sounds like this is really 
 
morphing into a new business item to revisit the proposal that 
was on the table in the work group in 2008 regarding redefinition 
-- or tweaking the regulatory criteria based on the results of 
that work group's activity, then. 
 
the meeting and see how to move ahead on it. 
 
 
 
that's been under way on the survey issues.  I don't know if 
there's anything new to discuss on that right now.  I guess we're 
going to most likely hold that one in abeyance while we forge 
ahead with the new work group, which we're going to talk about in 
a minute.  
 

Is there anything else in Lee County then? 
MS. SIMON:  No.  That was -- that was really it. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  The next issue is the work group 

Why don't we come back to that a little bit later in 

Anything on that? 

 

 

12 

Anything on Item C, the Army Corps of Engineers' 

MR. ALLEN:  Management members introduced a 

[No response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  It is not my intention to 

 
 
let that one drop, and we'll come back to it when our time 
permits.  There's a lot of unfinished business in that work 
group, but we've got to move ahead on this other one. 
 
special pay practice for lock and dam employees? 
MS. SIMON:  Could you just remind us or bring us all up 
 
to speed on what's going on with the lock and dam?  You're in the 
midst of analyzing the pay practices to help us make a decision 
about what to do for the lock and dam employees? 
 
recommendation back in -- towards the end of March.  It was in 
562-MGT-1.  It was prompted by a letter from Senator Boozman of 
Arkansas, who had received inquiries from constituents in the 
Fort Smith area who were working on a navigation channel project, 
but they're paid from the Little Rock, Arkansas, wage schedule. 
FPRAC made a recommendation 2 or 3 years ago to move 
 
Fort Smith into the Tulsa wage area, and OPM did that based on 
FPRAC's recommendation, but that did not move the lock and dam 
employees that Senator Boozman had in his district, so to speak. 

 

 

13 

So we took a look.  The Management members took a look 

 He was a Representative at the time that he was asking for help 
on this. 
 
at the overall status of the workforce that is paid under the 
lock and dam special schedule, and we have what basically amounts 
to a statistical analysis of the 1,600 or so employees who are 
currently paid from that special pay practice.  We analyzed what 
would happen to them if we changed the pay practice and instead 
used regular wage schedules, and there's also some historical 
background information in the analysis packet.  This was not an 
uncontentious issue when it was last discussed back in the 1970s. 
 
workers?  Don't they have special pay practices, also? 
 
Corps of Engineers at lake projects -- 
 
 
They're paid from regular wage schedules. 
 
comparing how the lock and dam workers would be paid if they 
continued under the special pay practices for lock and dam versus 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah. 
MR. ALLEN:  -- are not under a special schedule.  

MS. SIMON:  So ,when you're doing your analysis, you're 

MS. SIMON:  Well, what about the Army Corps' lake 

MR. ALLEN:  Employees who are working for the Army 

 

 

14 

MR. ALLEN:  No.  The employees who work on the lakes 

regular wage schedules -- 
MR. ALLEN:  That's right. 
 
MS. SIMON:  -- like the lake project employees? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  Mm-hmm. 
 
 
MS. SIMON:  So, implicitly, the comparison to the lake 
project employees is already included in your analysis?  Is that 
what you're saying? 
 
typically do not have to go many hundreds of miles from one duty 
location, their official duty station, into another wage area to 
work on the same type of -- 
MS. SIMON:  Waterway, whatever. 
 
MR. ALLEN:  -- waterway. 
 
MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
 
MR. ALLEN:  They're working on dams -- 
 
 
MS. SIMON:  And that's the rationale for the different 
pay practices, the fact that in the course of your work, you move 
from one -- you're working in more than one wage area at a time? 
 
MR. ALLEN:  That was the reason for establishing a 
special pay practice for the employees who work on navigation 
locks and dams.  The employees who work on dams that are damming 

 

 

15 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Well, I think the thing I was 

lakes were not included in the special pay practice back when the 
special pay practice was established. 
 
wondering, I don't know if this was on your mind, Jacque, but I'm 
just curious if the analysis that was done for the lock and dam 
employees was also done for the lake workers, how that would turn 
out: are they better off or worse off compared to their current 
situation?  If they were paid based the same special pay 
practice, I'm just curious how the results would compare for the 
two groups. 
 
employees in terms of their working relationships with their 
district headquarters and where they might be asked to report to 
work on any given day. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
 
 
MR. ALLEN:  When we last talked about this, we were 
trying to get an idea if there was some information from the 
field regarding the navigation lock and dam employees that the 
committee members wanted to share with each other to see if there 
was something we were missing in our analysis about how people 
actually work today, because it may be the case that they're not 

MR. ALLEN:  They really are different groups of 

 

 

16 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Oh, thank you.  Well, we'd be 

Okay.  Well, if there's anything else on that issue, 

MS. WALKER:  And I have gone out to Corps of Engineers 

traveling from one location to another as routinely as they used 
to.  I would imagine that quite a lot of that type of work has 
been contracted out over the years, so I think we're still open 
to getting that kind of information. 
 
asking for some feedback on that, and I have not received any 
yet.  I will report to the committee as soon as I get it. 
 
interested to hear that.  That might help us move ahead on this 
matter. 
 
let's -- 
 
 
 
on what you just said, about the difference.  What's the major 
difference between a Corps of Engineers person who works up and 
down a river in so many different locations and a lock and dam 
employee who goes from lock to lock in so many different 
locations?  I think you would try to make a distinction about the 
kind of work that they do. 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Sheldon, I have a question. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Yeah, go ahead. 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  Mark, I'm trying to get a better handle 

 

MR. SHULMAN:  Those are also Army Corps of Engineers 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  So they're both lock and damn people 

 

17 

MR. SHULMAN:  The lake folks that work on lake projects 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  And those are Army Corps of Engineers 

 
go to a specific location.  That's their duty location.  They 
don't flip back and forth. 
 
people? 
 
people. 
 
and Army Corps of Engineers? 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  Yes.  They're lock and dam, navigation 
lock and dam employees, the Army Corps of Engineers, and lake 
projects are also Army Corps of Engineers employees.  They have 
different types of duty locations. 
 
The lock and dam folks float up and down the river, 
depending -- and if we take them one wage survey area and put 
them to another -- 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And the lock and dam folks are paid 
based on the location of their district headquarters, I believe; 
whereas the lake folks are paid based on the physical location -- 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  Location of -- 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- of the lake. 

 

 

18 

MS. SIMON:  -- the lake, right? 
MR. SHULMAN:  Duty location, because the lake itself is 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  Okay, thank you. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So, anything more on this one? 
MS. SIMON:  Is the work they do any different? 
MR. SHULMAN:  Could be.  I mean, it could be.  A lock 

 
 
their duty location. 
 
 
 
 
 
and dam work itself is different than just a particular lake 
project. 
 
 
be different than maintenance of a retaining wall around the 
lake. 
 
 
out some way for us to get a resolution on this but would welcome 
suggestions. 
 
Okay.  That brings up D and E.  Is there anything new 
on either of those?  Are people ready to make any decisions on 
those? 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Maintenance of a lock and dam is going to 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, I'm going to figure 

 

 

19 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
MR. ALLEN:  On E, we had discussed the College 

Do you need me to go through that one again? 
MS. SIMON:  College Station one? 
MR. ALLEN:  Yeah. 
MS. SIMON:  No, but I do have some questions about F.  

MR. ALLEN:  I believe, Mr. Chairman, we have deferred 
 
further action on the South Bend-Mishawaka MSA because we wanted 
the working group to look at that.  I think we're still fine with 
deferring that one. 
 
 
Station-Bryan, Texas MSA.  There seemed to be a need to take a 
closer look at that one. 
 
 
 
 
I don't know about anybody else. 
 
if you would, if it's brief. 
 
doing is playing catch-up with definitions in metropolitan 
statistical areas as they grew following the 2000 Census.  There 
were new criteria that were established that caused MSAs to get 
bigger and added a whole lot of rural counties to existing 
metropolitan statistical areas. 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  I'd like you to go through that, Mark, 

MR. ALLEN:  With this type of issue, what we're really 

 

 

20 

One of them that we identified that needs to be 

Given the generally considered distance first, that's 

 
reviewed under the Federal wage system criteria that an MSA not 
be split for the purpose of defining wage area boundaries is the 
College Station-Bryan, Texas, MSA.  When we did an analysis of 
the regulatory criteria for this metropolitan statistical area, 
what we found -- and the analysis summary is on page 3 -- is that 
distance favors having the whole MSA in the Waco wage area, and 
the similarities in overall population, total private sector 
employment, and the kinds and sizes of private industrial 
establishments criteria also favor Waco.  The other criteria 
point to neither. 
 
the main reason for the Management proposal to move the one 
county, Burleson County, Texas, that's not currently in the Waco 
wage area, into the wage area with the rest of the MSA.  No 
employees are affected by the Management recommendation. 
 
on this one today?  Is there a consensus? 
 
 
affected? 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
MR. COX:  Mark, again, you're saying no employees are 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Are we ready to make any decision 

 

 

21 

I think this one is somewhat time sensitive, so it 

MR. ALLEN:  That's right. 
MR. COX:  Well, that always makes it easier. 
[Laughter.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So we have done some 

 
 
 
 
business.  Good.  Adopted this one, I believe. 
This brings up F under old business, abolishment of 
 
Montgomery, Pennsylvania, as a nonappropriated fund wage area. 
 
would be helpful if we can move on it.  Is there any discussion? 
 
MS. SIMON:  Well, I actually have a question, and that 
is, what's the rationale for having completely separate wage area 
boundaries for NAF and for appropriated fund? 
MR. ALLEN:  It actually goes back to the law and the 
 
legislative history.  Nonappropriated fund employees are only 
considered employees under Title 5 for pay purposes, and they 
were added on to the coordinated Federal wage system when the 
Prevailing Rate Systems Act was enacted back in 1972.  This 
committee spent several years developing a counterpart pay system 
for nonappropriated fund blue collar employees, and that's 
basically the rationale.  It goes back to how the law was passed 
and -- 

 

 

22 

MS. SIMON:  Is it because the places that employed 

MR. ALLEN:  I think what happened really was that the 

 
nonappropriated fund wage grade employees were different?  Were 
there concentrated numbers of NAF employees in different 
locations from the places where there were concentrated numbers 
of appropriated fund wage grade employees? 
 
Federal wage system appropriated fund wage areas were established 
where there were large concentrations of appropriated fund 
employees, which would typically be around a major military 
installation or VA medical center. 
 
 
most likely be very similar locations. 
 
attached to those same activities, so why the different wage 
areas?  I mean, I don't know if there was a reason then, but what 
in the world is the reason now? 
 
the law -- 
MS. SIMON:  Because we used to do it?  Well, I mean, I 
 
don't mean to be facetious.  I really want to understand what's 

MS. SIMON:  Uh-huh. 
MR. ALLEN:  The nonappropriated fund employees would 

MR. ALLEN:  The reason now is because, to get back to 

MS. SIMON:  Well, I was thinking they're usually 

 

 

23 

MR. ROVAN:  The law specifically states for 

MS. SIMON:  Okay.  So you'd need a law change in order 

MR. ROVAN:  Yes. 
MS. SIMON:  -- actually change the criteria to make 

The only definitional criterion that there is, is 

-- why we would, you know, retain these complete separate areas. 
 
nonappropriated fund wage area definition that it be the 
immediate locality.  There is no language about MSAs a or any of 
those other concepts. 
 
immediate locality, which means around the installation, and it 
would be the county that the employees work in on that basis. 
 
to -- 
 
 
them more in line with the appropriated fund? 
 
 
 
little bit?  Because, I mean, if you look at these maps, a lot of 
the counties aren't even adjacent that are in these NAF wage 
areas, right? 
MR. ROVAN:  The only -- there are holes because you 
 
only have an area defined when there are NAF employees in it. 

MR. ROVAN:  Definitely. 
MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Can I just follow up on that a 

 

 

24 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right. 
MR. ROVAN:  If there are no NAF employees, then there 

MR. ROVAN:  Again, it goes back to the law. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
MR. ALLEN:  There's also an underlying legal principle 

 
 
is nothing. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Right.  But it is hard for me to 
 
understand why the areas have evolved so differently in their 
definitions. 
 
 
 
that drives having a NAF system that's separate from the 
appropriated fund system, and that is the prevailing rate 
concept. 
 
industries be surveyed to establish the nonappropriated fund 
rates. 
 
appropriated fund system back when the Federal wage system was 
created,  I believe that most likely, the appropriated fund wage 
schedules would have been reduced in order to have the 
nonappropriated fund wage schedules kind of merged in with the 
appropriated fund schedules.  So what we're really looking at is 

If NAF industries had been surveyed as part of the 

The law, I believe, also requires that different 

 

 

25 

It's like the difference between a workforce that 

MR. SHULMAN:  Service industries, retail sales -- 
MR. ALLEN:  Yeah. 
MR. SHULMAN:  -- as opposed to -- 
MR. ALLEN:  People working in shipyards. 
MS. SIMON:  Like commissaries and stuff like that. 
MR. SHULMAN:  Yes, exactly right, as opposed to skill 

a difference between the types of work that most employees of 
nonappropriated fund activities do and what the most employees do 
who are paid from the appropriated funds. 
 
primarily does work in restaurants -- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
trades. 
MS. SIMON:  No, I'm aware of the difference between the 
 
workforces.  I just didn't understand the difference between the 
wage area boundaries, why that was attached to it. 
 
that question. 
 
why are we jumping counties that are not even -- 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  It's counties, I think he said. 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Oh. 

MR. ALLEN:  I think Hank hit the nail on the head for 

MS. SUSZCZYK:  But if it is metropolitan areas, again, 

 

 

26 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  So where does that leave us on this 

MS. SIMON:  And the deal is that there are now too few 

MR. ALLEN:  I believe there will be a few if any in 

MS. SIMON:  Did you say counties? 
MR. SHULMAN:  Counties. 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Counties. 
MS. SIMON:  Counties, not metropolitan area, so this is 

 
 
 
 
-- 
 
specific recommendation from Management? 
 
NAF employees in Montgomery County? 
 
Montgomery Country because of the closure of Willow Grove, which 
will be closing -- if it hasn't closed already, it should be 
closing very, very soon. 
 
There is also a VA medical center in Philadelphia.  I 
think that's the main group of employees who would be remaining 
that we're really concerned about in this case, but what we would 
like to do is get them transferred to a continuing wage area, so 
that in most cases, the employees would actually see their pay 
increase in October.  And that's the reason we want to push 
ahead. 
 

MS. SIMON:  Montgomery is the survey area.  Bucks, 

 

 

27 

MR. ALLEN:  It would redefine Montgomery and 

Chester County would be part of the area of application 

Chester, and Philadelphia would then become a NAF wage area. 
 
Philadelphia counties as areas of application for the Burlington, 
New Jersey, wage area. 
 
for Harford, Maryland. 
 
Luzerne County would go to the Morris, New Jersey, wage 
area.  Bucks County would be removed, because there are no longer 
employees in that county as we speak. 
 
are lower than they were in the Philadelphia and -- 
 
and 2, and about equal at Grade 3. 
 
has just 21 NAF employees? 
 
show zero in Bucks County, 8 in Chester, 8 in Luzerne, 14 with 
the VA medical center in Philadelphia, and 7 with the Naval 
Support Activity. 
 
area? 

MS. SIMON:  And Philadelphia has -- Philadelphia County 

MS. SIMON:  And the wages in Burlington, New Jersey, 

MR. ALLEN:  I believe that they're higher at Grades 1 

MR. ALLEN:  It is on page 2-1, following the maps.  We 

MS. SIMON:  And Luzerne is going to go to what wage 

 

 

28 

MR. ALLEN:  Luzerne goes to Morris, New Jersey. 
But, yeah, you're correct.  None of those remaining 

MS. SIMON:  What's the minimum for NAF? 
MR. SHULMAN:  Twenty-six. 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  How many? 
MR. SHULMAN:  Twenty-six. 
MS. SIMON:  They need to hire five more people at the 

 
 
counties have enough employees in them to justify being a 
separate wage area. 
 
 
 
 
 
VA medical center in Philly. 
 
 
Chester County?  Would they be going up, the employees who would 
be considered now in the Harford -- Chester to Harford?  Are the 
wages higher or lower? 
 
out. 
 
review.  Typically, what we find when we're dealing -- 
 
 

[Laughter.] 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  What is the wage for employees in 

MR. ALLEN:  I don't have that information separated 

Comparative wage schedules are in the back of the 

MS. SUSZCZYK:  We would like a caucus. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Pardon me? 

 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Of course.  I think we have the 

 

29 

MS. SUSZCZYK:  We want to have a Labor caucus, not to 

MS. SIMON:  To take a look at some of these. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Small Pendleton Room for caucuses. 
[Labor caucus held off the record.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  We are back in session. 
Any further discussion of the Management proposal to 

 
interrupt.  Sorry. 
 
Small Pendleton Room. 
 
 
 
 
 
abolish Montgomery, Pennsylvania, nonappropriated fund wage area? 
 
Bucks and Philadelphia into Burlington, and if that's -- I think 
that makes just as much sense as moving Bucks and Philadelphia 
into Burlington, and that would not harm the employees that are 
currently in Chester County. 
 
Management? 
 
look at it. 
 
want to -- 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  You guys want to caucus or do you 

MS. SUSZCZYK:  I propose moving Chester County with 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is that change acceptable to 

MR. SHULMAN:  Don't know.  Let's go back and take a 

 

 

30 

MR. SHULMAN:  I don't know that we'd reach a decision 

MR. SHULMAN:  We still need to run some numbers. 
MR. ALLEN:  What we would need to look at are the 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  It's only eight people.  It's eight 

 
on it today.  We probably may need to caucus and run some 
numbers. 
 
 
people. 
 
 
regulatory criteria.  The regulatory criteria are a little bit 
different for the appropriated fund and nonappropriated fund 
employees.  Commuting is not something that's looked at.  
Proximity is really the main thing that's looked at, although we 
also look at similarities in overall population, private 
employment, that type of thing. 
 
Harford.  I misspoke before, we do look at commuting patterns and 
transportation facilities.  Commuting patterns would favor 
Burlington. 
 
suburban county of Philadelphia, and the bridge to New Jersey is 
right off the road in Chester County. 

When we look at proximity for Chester, it favors 

MS. SIMON:  Yeah.  Chester County is very much a 

 

 

31 

MR. ALLEN:  Yeah.  I do think we need to take another 

MR. SHULMAN:  We need to analyze it to be sure. 
MR. ALLEN:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So we will revisit this at 

 
look at this.  It's not always necessarily a given that if a wage 
area is abolished that counties have to be split up and sent in 
different directions.  If there's a historical pay relationship 
between counties in an existing wage area, they could be moved 
together to the new  wage area. 
 
 
 
the next meeting. 
 
the proposal from AFGE to move -- to redefine Monroe County, 
Pennsylvania.  Is there anything further on that at this time? 
MS. SIMON:  Does Management have a response? 
 
MR. SHULMAN:  We are not prepared to discuss this at 
 
this point, and we tried hard to get the primary affected party 
represented here at today's meeting to be here to discuss the 
matter with us, and that would be the garrison commander, et al., 
from Tobyhanna Army Depot.  Unfortunately, just because of 
scheduling, that couldn't happen, but they did say that they 
would be available at the next meeting. 

And that brings up the last old business item, which is 

 

 

32 

So, if we would be willing to shelve this again, I 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  So I guess we'll -- 
MS. SIMON:  Obviously, money matters, but it's not 

 
think that they would have some  -- their information would have 
some probative value in terms of this discussion.  I think it 
would be a mistake to ignore any information  that they would 
bring to the table and be able to share with us. 
Furthermore, I think it would be instructive for us to 
 
be able to complete a full financial analysis of this proposal, 
and that's something we haven't had time to do. 
 
 
supposed to matter for our decisions. 
 
perspective that has not been presented to the committee on this 
particular county, so it may well be instructive to hear what the 
garrison commander has to say. 
 
then. 
 
 
from the garrison commander next time. 
 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  And it would be interesting to hear 

It's not on the agenda, but I do think it's an item of 

 

MR. ALLEN:  We would potentially be hearing a 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, we'll defer this one, 

 

33 

Is there a concurrence that we should set up this 

MR. SHULMAN:  Management would like to ask for a caucus 

new business that we need to address, which is the matter of 
setting up this new working group, which has a name.  Let's see. 
 I think everyone has 565-OC-2, FPRAC working group on Director's 
memo, and we call it in the memo the Wage Area Definition Study 
Group, and this is the study group that would be working with the 
OPM and DoD staff that are drafting the report that Director 
Berry has requested.  
 
working group? 
 
on this matter since this document was first presented to us in 
its final form today. 
 
 
have not had a chance to discuss it. 
 
but you're certainly most welcome to have a caucus. 
 
 
available. 
 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
MR. SHULMAN:  We've seen it in various iterations but 

MR. SHULMAN:  Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  The Small Pendleton Room is 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  I think it was e-mailed earlier, 

MR. SHULMAN:  Thank you. 

 

 

34 

[Management caucus held off the record.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  We are back in session. 
Is there anything to report to us from your caucus? 
MR. ALLEN:  Mr. Chairman, I believe we do have 

 
 
 
 
consensus on establishing the working group under 565-OC-2.  All 
the rules that are in there are rules that we think are 
appropriate for the working group to follow to meet the 
Director's objective of obtaining more information on the issue 
that was presented to him for his consideration back in October 
of last year. 
 
side to set up the working group pursuant to this document? 
 
 
 
 Maybe we need to think through it some more, but going back to 
the earlier discussion, the proposals that were left on the table 
in the 2008 work group relating to tweaking regulatory criteria 
such as the threshold for considering abolishment of wage areas, 
how do we move ahead on that?  How do we get some sort of report 
on where things were in 2008 in that work group, things that 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there consensus on the Labor 

MR. FENAUGHTY:  Yep. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay. 
Another potential item of new business -- I don't know. 

 

 

35 

MR. ALLEN:  I think a good approach is to do another 

apparently had some consensus at that point but were never 
actually implemented? 
 
analysis by wage area and see what wage areas are currently above 
the threshold or possibly below the threshold of 300 that the 
members of this committee talked about a couple years ago, and we 
could either do that through the other working group that was 
established for that purpose, or we could just present some 
information back to the full committee. 
 
MS. SIMON:  Could we get a copy to the full committee, 
the report of that 2008 work group?  I think there was consensus 
on at least something.  I forget what.  I mean, I know I have it 
in my files. 
 
 
something that was adopted was this idea of consolidating 
metropolitan statistical areas and combined statistical areas. 
MR. ALLEN:  No, we never discussed that part. 
 
MS. SIMON:  Really?  We never discussed it? 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Was there a report?  And I've seen 
 
one, too, I believe, a report from that work group in 2008.  Why 

MR. ALLEN:  Yeah.  There are a series of messy votes -- 
MS. SIMON:  The reason I thought there was consensus on 

 

 

36 

MR. ALLEN:  There's an FPRAC document which had -- I 

We voted on the options, and there was a split vote, so 

don't we at least share that. 
 
think it was five different options, but coming out of the 
working group, everybody had been in agreement to take a look at 
wage areas with fewer than 300 employees to see if they should be 
abolished and combined with other wage areas, but we never got 
beyond that stage. 
 
there was actually no agreement on anything specific.  There is 
an FPRAC recommendation which resulted in no changes to  OPM's 
regulatory criteria.  If we did want to add a regulatory 
criterion, set a threshold of a certain level for a wage area to 
continue, then we could do that, but we would not be able to do 
that for, I guess, as long as the pay freeze is in place, because 
it would affect some employees negatively, some employees 
positively. 
 
 
options, so that we can see again what was under consideration in 
2008? 
 

MS. SIMON:  That wasn't what I was wondering. 
Would it be possible to reintroduce that list of 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Why don't we circulate the piece of 

 

 

37 

MS. SIMON:  Are those data in FedScope? 
MR. ALLEN:  The wage area definitions are not in 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  -- and then see which ones -- and 

paper, so everybody can see what it was -- 
 
 
what the disposition was at that time as well as I think it would 
be useful to circulate the list you mentioned, the descending 
order of wage areas by current employment level or those that are 
below some threshold.  Those two pieces of paper, I think would 
help us move forward. 
 
 
FedScope. 
 
then number of employees by -- 
 
intensive manual labor for somebody to do something like that 
using FedScope because we have some counties that are split -- 
 
 
separate wage areas to deal with. 
 
 

MS. SIMON:  Okay. 
MR. ALLEN:  -- between wage areas, and there are 132 

MR. ALLEN:  Okay. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Is there any other new business? 

MS. SIMON:  So you can't go like pay system and FWS and 

MR. ALLEN:  It would take a while to do.  It would be 

 

 

38 

[No response.] 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  If not, I want to recognize our 

 
 
colleague Chuck Grimes who has requested a point of special 
privilege that I think he richly deserves. 
MR. GRIMES:  Thank you very much. 
 
 
I've been associated with FPRAC for most of 35 years, 
and it's been a blast, but the Director has asked me to assume a 
new role here at OPM as the Chief Operating Officer, which will 
sort of take me out of this role here, so I just wanted to thank 
all of you for all the good debates that we've had over the 
years. 
 
I started with the Federal Wage System back in 1976, so 
I've been either doing wage surveys or sitting as the Designated 
Federal Official for a pretty long time.  In fact, I'm not sure 
how many of you know, but I hired Mark probably 20 years ago.  I 
think I was responsible for recruiting Craig back about 35 years 
ago. 
 
you all, and I just wanted to say thanks. 
 
 

So it's been a long and productive relationship with 

MS. SIMON:  And thank you. 
MS. SUSZCZYK:  Thank you. 

 

 

39 

MR. GRIMES:  The rest of the story is that Angie Bailey 

 
MR. FENAUGHTY:  Thank you. 
 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Thank you very much. 
 
I guess the new face at the table, Designated Federal 
Official for FPRAC, will be Jerry, or is that not yet official?  
I don't know.  Did I jump the gun here? 
 
will be taking over Employee Services as Associate Director.  
Joseph Kennedy will be taking on the Deputy Associate Director 
role in Employee Services, and under your charter, that person is 
the Designated Federal Official. 
 
will be the designee at these meetings, although you might see 
Joseph occasionally, so that's the rest of the story. 
 
him. 
 
 
than 35 years, so I'm leaving you in good hands. 
 
assignment.  
 

[Laughter.] 
MR. GRIMES:  He's been around for, you know, longer 

CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Well, good luck in your new 

I think we can have at least a short initial meeting of 

I suspect, though, he will designate Jerry as -- Jerry 

I would introduce Jerry, but I think you guys all know 

 

 

40 

our new work group which will convene in about 10 minutes or 
maybe a little less, given the time, after we adjourn. 
 
Unless there's anything else for this morning’s 
meeting, a motion to adjourn would certainly be in order. 
 
 
 
adjourned.  Thank you. 
 

MS. SIMON:  So moved. 
MR. ALLEN:  Seconded. 
CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:  Okay.  Hearing no objection, we are 

•-•-• 

 

