                                                                 1

              FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

                             583rd FPRAC

               SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding

                       Thursday, March 21, 2013

                               Room 5526
                    Office of Personnel Management
                        Washington, D.C. 20415

ATTENDANCE:

Members/Alternates:

     Management Members:
     Mark Allen, OPM
     Steve Rumble, DoD
     Pamela Sokol, Army

     Labor Members:
     Dennis Phelps, MTD
     Jacque Simon, AFGE
     Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE
     Steven Landis, ACT

Staff Specialists and Visitors:
     Jerry Mikowicz, Designated Federal Officer, OPM
     Madeline Gonzalez, OPM
     Brenda Roberts, OPM
     Jeanne Jacobson, OPM
     Mike Eicher, OPM
     Terri Wallace, OPM
     Lindsay O'Keefe OPM
     Jim Brady, DoD
     Karl Fendt, DoD
     Bill Becht, DoD

Recording Secretaries:    Mike Eicher and Terri Wallace

   [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]
                                                               2

                          C O N T E N T S
                                                        Page
I.     Opening/Announcements
       • Introductions.....................................3
       • Announcements.....................................4
         - FPRAC Annual Summary 2012, 583-OC-1

II.    Review of the Minutes of 582nd Meeting..............9

III.   Old Business........................................9
       a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2
          - Total Employment in Eastern Tennessee Wage
            Area by County, 566-OPM-1
          - List of FWS Wage Areas with Fewer Than 500
            Employees, 566-OPM-2
          - Review of Criteria for Defining Appropriated
            Fund Wage Areas, 545-OC-1
       b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns
          - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on
            Survey Issues Work Group, 560-OC-1
       c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal
          Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1
       d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
       e. Letter from the American Federation of Government
          Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
          review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
          from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
          the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1
       f. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1
       g. Proposal for FPRAC review of the Federal Wage
          System Appropriated Fund and Non-Appropriated
          Fund Operating Manuals, 575-AFGE-1
       h. Suggestion for a research paper on the history
          of the Federal Government's prevailing rate
          system
       i. Review of the Augusta and Portland, ME Federal
          Wage System Wage Areas, 578-MGT-1
          - Alternate Analysis of the Portland, ME Federal
            Wage System Wage Area, 580-MGT-1

IV.    New Business......................................10
       a. Definition of Broward County, Florida, to a
          NAF Federal Wage System Wage Area, 583-MGT-1
       b. Redefinition of the Clayton-Fulton-Cobb, Georgia,
          NAF Federal Wage System Wage Area, 583-MGT-2
                                                                3


                       P R O C E E D I N G

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Good morning, everyone, and

welcome to this, our 583rd meeting of the Federal

Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee.    My name is Sheldon

Friedman, Chair of the Committee, and as usual, why don't

we go around and introduce ourselves, starting on the Labor

side today?

          MR. PHELPS:    Dennis Phelps for Metal Trades

Department.

          MS. SIMON:    Jacque Simon, AFGE.

          MS. SUSZCZYK:    Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE.

          MR. LANDIS:    Steve Landis, ACT.

          MR. ALLEN:    Mark Allen with OPM.

          MR. RUMBLE:    Steve Rumble, Department of Defense.

          MS. SOKOL:    Pamela Sokol, Department of Army.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    And we are hoping for at

least one more Management member, so we get four folks on

the Management side, but let's continue meanwhile.

          MS. GONZALEZ:    Madeline Gonzalez with OPM.

          MR. MIKOWICZ:    Jerry Mikowicz, OPM, the

Designated Federal Officer for this meeting.

          MS. JACOBSON:    Jeanne Jacobson, OPM.
                                                                  4


          MS. ROBERTS:    Brenda Roberts, OPM.

          MR. FENDT:   Karl Fendt, DoD.

          MR. BRADY:   Jim Brady, DoD.

          MR. BECHT:   Bill Becht, DoD.

          MS. WALLACE:    Terri Wallace, OPM.

          MS. O'KEEFE:    Lindsay O'Keefe, OPM.

          MR. EICHER: Mike Eicher, OPM.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:       Okay.   Thank you, everyone.

          A couple of announcements.       Well, the first one

is we are sad to say we are going to be losing our

Designated Federal Officer in a short period of time.       He

is retiring, Jerry Mikowicz.       It's been a great pleasure

for me to work with him, and I know I'll miss him.       I feel

our whole Committee will.

          If you want to say anything, Jerry, maybe

enlighten us on who your successor might be, if that's

known?

          MR. MIKOWICZ:     Yes.    So, today, I guess I would

mark my age as -- in PRAC years, I'm 583 years old, because

I started in OPM in 1974 when PRAC was just starting, and I

used to attend some of the meetings early on.       Of course,

it was the building years.    It was really interesting,
                                                                 5


because we were all working to make a consistent Federal

prevailing rate system out of all the separate systems in

existence at the time.      It was an exciting time.

            At that time, there were 24 people at OPM working

on the Federal Wage System.     Today, we have Mark who does

it part-time, because he is managing other programs, the

white collar program, et cetera, and we have Madeline and

Terri, who are working primarily on the Federal Wage

System, and now Mike Eicher jumped in, and he works the

recorder.

            I was at one point the Recording Secretary for

PRAC.   We used to have -- actually, I was sitting at the

front of the table taking the notes, and, boy, you ought to

see the comments we had about notes during those days.

            [Laughter.]

            MR. MIKOWICZ:    And maybe that's why they went to

recordings.   I don't know.     No, I think there were other

reasons.

            I left OPM for a while and came back when the

Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act was enacted.     It

was passed in 1990, and PRAC was still in swing, and here I

am today.
                                                                 6


             I think this is an organization that has had

remarkable success.    I know that both sides have not always

gotten everything they wanted, but what has impressed me is

the willingness to work together.    We see that in the

working groups.    We see it in phone calls, e-mails, and

meetings that we have, and I think that is a tribute to all

the people in Management and Labor sitting at the table.

             Chairman Sheldon Friedman, I have to thank you

for really digging into the issues and for your leadership.

             Jacque, I appreciate you standing up to the TV

monitors defending federal employees when many times we on

the federal side can't do that.

             So a special thanks to the OPM team, and speaking

about the future, we are in the process of getting all the

papers and clearance.    Brenda Roberts here at OPM, who did

work at DoD years ago, will take over my place as the

Designated Federal Officer, and Jeanne Jacobson will be her

alternate.    And the reason I mention that is because the

next meeting, I will be unable to attend, I will be

deployed for a national COOP exercise.    I won't be here,

and Brenda also is going to COOP, so Jeanne will be here,

so thank you.
                                                                7


            [Applause.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Thank you, again, Jerry.

It's been a pleasure to work with you.

            People may not know it, but Jerry is an avid

hiker.   I guess he's going to get to do a bit more of that

now.

            MR. MIKOWICZ:   Yes.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     And I guess we should also

say that Terri Wallace, who has been working with our

Committee for a long time, is going to be away for a while

on leave.   People can take one look at her and guess what

the nature of the leave is.

            MS. WALLACE:    You better not guess wrong.

            [Laughter.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Okay.   So one other quick

announcement.   Last meeting, we approved our annual report

for 2012, and you have a copy of the final in your packets.

            Any other announcements?

            MR. RUMBLE:    Mr. Chairman?

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Yes, sir.

            MR. RUMBLE:    In the scheme of things of people

not being here anymore, Hank Rovan, our chief of the NAF
                                                                8


side of Wage, is retiring, and it is my understanding that

he's been involved in this about as long as Mr. Mikowicz,

since the late '70s.

          He did not opt to come today to say anything, but

he's leaving the early part of next month.

          MR. ALLEN:    Does this mean we can talk about him,

since he's not here?

          MR. RUMBLE:    Certainly.

          [Laughter.]

          MR. RUMBLE:    Who's taking notes?

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Has his successor been

designated?

          MR. RUMBLE:    We are not quite as fast within DoD

on doing that, so I don't believe that anybody --

          MS. SIMON:    Blind sequestration.   There is a

hiring freeze at DoD.

          MR. RUMBLE:    I know.   It's amazing, Jacque, that

people keep moving.    It's kind of like cannibalization.

You move from one department to another department doing

the same job, people moving around.

          Jim, has anybody --

          MR. BRADY:    I have nothing to share on that at
                                                                  9


this time.    Thank you.

             MR. RUMBLE:   I didn't think so.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Well, it's been a

pleasure to work with Hank, as well.

             Any other announcements?

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   If not, let's move on to

reviewing the transcript from our last meeting.      Are there

any other changes to the transcript, beyond those people

have already sent in?

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   If not, is there agreement to

adopt the transcript of our last meeting?

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Hearing no objection, the

transcript is adopted.

             That brings up old business.   Is there any old

business item that people wish to discuss today?

             Mark has brought to my attention that OMB has

just released the new updates for MSA definitions based on

the latest Census, which also would give us new commuting

data, and so, therefore, some of the pending items in old
                                                               10


business that relate to definitions of wage areas might

actually be out of date, so we may want to hold on to those

until we get the latest word.

          Apart from that, is there any -- so I suggest we

let those sit until we hear back on that, but apart from

that, is there any other old business item that people want

to bring up this morning?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I guess that's a no.

          Which brings us to new business with two items.

The first one, 583-MANAGEMENT-1, Definition of Broward

County, Florida, to a Nonappropriated Fund Wage Area.

          Mark, would you summarize that for us, please?

          MR. ALLEN:    Sure.   We actually have two

Nonappropriated Fund wage area redefinitions at this

meeting, two new business items.    So I would deem these to

be the Hank Rovan memorial redefinitions.

          [Laughter.]

          MR. ALLEN:    First one is 583-MANAGEMENT-1, the

definition of Broward County, Florida.

          It's fairly simple.    The maps at Attachment 1

show that Broward County is to the north of Miami-Dade
                                                                11


County, and just to the south is Palm Beach County.      Miami-

Dade is a survey county.     Palm Beach is an area of

application, and Broward County is wedged right in between

those.   There are three employees with the Department of

Veterans Affairs who should be assigned to an appropriate

wage schedule, and when we look at the regulatory criteria

analysis on page 2 of the document, you see that they all

understandably point to Miami-Dade as being the appropriate

wage area definition.     This would be the definition of

Broward County to the area of application of the Miami-Dade

wage area.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Thank you, Mark.

             Are there any questions or discussion?

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Is there consensus to adopt

this?

             MS. SIMON:   Yeah.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   So there being a consensus,

we have adopted 583-MANAGEMENT-1.     Thank you.

             That brings up 583-MANAGEMENT-2.   Please

summarize that one for us, Mark.

             MR. ALLEN:   This is a little bit different than
                                                               12


other Nonappropriated Fund wage area redefinitions that

we've seen recently.   This is actually one where we're not

redefining a county to another wage area.    We are removing

counties where there are currently no NAF employees or

there will soon be none left because of base closures and

realignments.

           As you can see on the maps in your packet,

Enclosure 1, the current Clayton-Cobb-Fulton, Georgia,

Nonappropriated Fund Area consists of three survey

counties, Fulton, Cobb, and Clayton, and three area of

application counties, Bartow, DeKalb, and Clarke.

           What we are recommending is on the next map, that

that wage area be shrunk down to have a survey area of Cobb

County only, and that the only two areas of application

counties be Bartow and DeKalb Counties.

           So, in a way, this is kind of like abolishing a

wage area and then starting it over again.   When this wage

area would be redefined, the next wage schedule for Cobb

would be an unrestricted wage schedule, not subject to a

pay cap.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Any questions or discussion?

           [No audible response.]
                                                                13


           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Is there consensus to do

this, or does Labor need to talk about it?

           MR. LANDIS:    I think from what I'm reading here

is that the facilities or whatever that had employees in

Clayton and Fulton, they are no longer there?

           MR. ALLEN:    That's correct.

           MR. LANDIS:    Okay.   What's the -- I guess there's

savings then for not having to deal with those counties,

since there's no longer any facilities there as opposed to

just dealing with Cobb on its own?

           MR. ALLEN:    The wage survey itself would be less

expensive to conduct since there would be fewer data

collectors.   The same type of establishments would be

covered.   The covered survey area is covering most of the

City of Atlanta, and I believe it would be shrunk down to

just the northwestern suburbs around Atlanta.     It's

impossible to predict what the wage schedule would actually

look like at this time.    The next survey done there will be

done in only one county.

           I should say that Nonappropriated Fund wage areas

are a little different than -- actually, they are quite a

bit different than Appropriated Fund wage areas in that the
                                                               14


law provides that they can only be established where there

are NAF employees; whereas, with the Appropriated Fund wage

area we define every county as part of a wage area.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Just for my own education,

does the regulation on that, that the wage area shall not

extend beyond the immediate locality, actually state that

the immediate locality must be a county? Is that what you

are referring to, Mark?

           MR. ALLEN:   Yes.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Where is immediate locality

defined?

           MR. ALLEN:   That is -- it's actually citing the

law, 85 USC 5343, and the locality is defined by OPM

regulation on a county basis.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   I may need a sidebar

education on that, because I'm not quite -- it sounds

circular to me.   Locality is defined somewhere else as a

county?

           MR. ALLEN:   Well, OPM has to implement laws, and

OPM does that through regulation, and there's a listing in

one of the appendices to Title 5, Code of Federal

Regulations, that identifies each wage area for
                                                                   15


Nonappropriated Fund employees by county.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      It seems to me this is a

metropolitan area, the Atlanta area.       You are taking one

county out of the metropolitan area and saying that's going

to be the locality.

            MR. LANDIS:   Which county is Atlanta in?     I'm not

familiar.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      I think Fulton.

            MR. LANDIS:   We know that Atlanta is in Fulton?

            MR. ALLEN:    Yeah.   Fulton is downtown Atlanta.

Counties in Georgia tend to be relatively small

geographically --

            MR. LANDIS:   Okay.     So instead of a county --

            MR. PHELPS:   I think actually Atlanta is

partially in Fulton and partially in DeKalb.

            MS. SIMON:    DeKalb.    I'm sure that you are still

in Atlanta proper in DeKalb.

            MR. PHELPS:   Yeah.

            MR. LANDIS:   Okay.     So this isn't like what I'm

used to where a county contains a town.

            MR. PHELPS:   No.

            MR. LANDIS:   This town could stretch through
                                                                16


other counties.   I'm just curious if the land was fully

within Fulton if that would -- removing Fulton County from

this would then later on drive the surveys to come up with

lower wage scales because of that.     I'm not sure.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Do we have an answer to that

question?

            MR. ALLEN:    The wage schedule would reflect the

prevailing wage levels around Marietta and Cobb County.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   So is there any light that

can be shed on Steve's question?

            MR. ALLEN:    What was the question?

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   He's asking what's the impact

on the -- well, you ask it again.

            MR. LANDIS:   I was just wondering.    I'm not

familiar with the area that well, but I know Atlanta is a

high-priced living area.     So I ask if losing those two

counties and then doing a future wage survey in only Cobb

County would cause the overall wages to decrease.      People

are already there in Cobb, in the current wage schedule,

and if the proposal just maintains Cobb, if the employees

in that wage area would then be put on a lower wage pay

scale.
                                                                  17


             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Can you shed some light on

that, Jim?

             MR. BRADY:   No.   We are unable to shed light,

because we've never surveyed this Cobb County from a

universe point of view.     We've always had data from the

other two counties, as well.      So determining what a survey

in the one county would actually look like is fairly

difficult.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   So what's your pleasure?

             MS. SIMON:   Well, we do have data from that one

county.

             MR. BRADY:   We have it as a mix of the three

counties, but we don't really have data that was based on

one county as an entire survey.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   You haven't done the

calculation, I think is what you’re saying, right?       You've

never pulled out the data from that county?

             MR. BRADY:   There's not really a good way of

doing it because it's been part of a large sample survey,

in which Atlanta, you know, has some domination.      So

actually surveying the county by itself would be a much

different survey than the survey that includes the
                                                               18


metropolitan area of Atlanta.

          MR. PHELPS:   I wouldn't imagine as far as the

cost Steve was talking about or Mark was talking about that

it would be that much, since you have the three counties

right there together, that your cost would be that

prohibitive to continue with the three -- or any difference

really from the one to the three.   Those activities right

there, you're only talking probably 20, 25 miles to the

furthest point in the third county.   I would imagine that

you probably have people who commute regularly from the

other two counties into there to work if that's where your

most activity is at this point.

          MR. ALLEN:    The thing driving this is not really

a concern about the survey resources.   It's that OPM

regulations and the law require -- together they require

defining the wage area by county for NAF purposes, and

since there would be no NAF employees in two of the current

survey area counties, it would not be an accurate

reflection to those employees just in Cobb County to have

their pay level set based on two other counties where there

aren't any NAF employees.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Is this something we can get
                                                                 19


consensus on today or does it need further study?        Are

there questions that the Labor side feels it needs answers

to, or where are we on this one?

           MS. SUSZCZYK:    Are you able to point us today to

where we can find the definition of localities?

           MR. ALLEN:    It would be in Part 532.      It's

Appendix A to subpart B or something like that.

           MR. LANDIS:   Is that what you have written in the

report here, 5 USC 5343?

           MR. ALLEN:    No, that's a cite from the law.

           MR. LANDIS:   That's different?     Okay.

           MR. ALLEN:    Here it is.   Regulatory, 5 CFR

Appendix C, subpart D.     That's where it lists the

Nonappropriated Fund Areas by county.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Right.   That's what is being

proposed to change, right?

           MR. ALLEN:    Yes.   Using counties is a system-wide

feature.   It’s OPM's implementation of the statute.

           MS. SIMON:    We're okay with it.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.    All right.    Then

there's consensus to adopt 583-MANAGEMENT-2.

           Is there any other new business not on the
                                                               20


agenda?

           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    If not, is there any

objection to adjourning?

           MR. LANDIS:   I probably should have brought this

up when we were discussing old business, but I was looking

at something else.

           The report we prepared last year, I know I have

brought this up many times before.     I just wondered if

there was any news on that.     I know that as far as I

understand, the pay freeze is set to expire at the end of

this month.   Has that been changed?

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    There's stuff going on in

Congress that would extend it perhaps.    We don't know for

sure.

           Jerry, can you elaborate?

           MR. MIKOWICZ:   From all we know, the Senate and

the House both have proposals to have legislation passed in

the houses that would extend the pay freeze to the end of

2013.   I believe there was also a presidential statement

that he would not veto that because that is part of a

larger package, and so I think that people mostly think the
                                                                 21


probability is that there will be a pay freeze for the rest

of the year, but as we all know, until it happens, it

doesn't happen.    So we'll have to wait to see events over

the next few days.

             MR. LANDIS:   Is that part of the H.R. 933 that

they've been discussing, or is this something -- a few

other --

             MR. MIKOWICZ:   I don't know how it's packaged, so

I can't answer that.

             MR. LANDIS:   All right.   So as far as we know,

then it is still in limbo until that's --

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I don't have any information

other than that.    "Limbo" would be as good a word as any,

I'd say.   Would you say?

             MR. MIKOWICZ:   Agree.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Anything else?

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   So any objection to

adjourning?

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Hearing no objection, we're

adjourned.    See you all next month.     Thank you very much.
