                                                                 1

              FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

                             591st FPRAC

              SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding

                      Thursday, February 20, 2014

                               Room 5526
                    Office of Personnel Management
                        Washington, D.C. 20415


ATTENDANCE:

Members/Alternates:

    Management Members:
    Mark Allen, OPM
    Seth Shulman, DoD
    Tracy Schulberg, Navy

    Labor Members:
    Bill Fenaughty, MTD
    David Cann, AFGE
    Adair Gregory, NAGE
    Steven Landis, ACT

Staff Specialists and Visitors:
     Brenda Roberts, Designated Federal Officer, OPM
     Madeline Gonzalez, OPM
     Luis Lynch, AF
     Jim Brady, DoD
     Karl Fendt, DoD
     Gary Kistner, DoD

Recording Secretaries:
     Mike Eicher, OPM
     Terri Wallace, OPM

   [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]
                                                                2

                          C O N T E N T S
                                                         Page
I.     Opening/Announcements
       • Introductions.....................................3
       • Announcements.....................................5
         - Fiscal Year 2014 Prevailing Rate Pay Adjustment,
           591-OPM-1
         - OPM letter approving DOI's request to update the
           pay policy covering the crew of the RANGER III
           vessel, 591-OC-1
         - Response to Captain William Hanrahan's comments
           on FPRAC's December 2013 Recommendation for the
           RANGER III, 591-OC-2
         - Appropriated fund FWS employees paid less than
           $10.10 per hour, February 2014, 591-OC-3
         - Nonappropriated fund FWS employees paid less
           than $10.10 per hour, February 2014, 591-OC-4

II.   Review of the Minutes of the 590th
Meeting...................................................8

III.   Old Business........................................8
       a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2
          - 2013 Update to Review Lee County, Virginia,
            586-MGT-1
       b. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal
          Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1
       c. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
          - 2013 Update to Definition of South Bend-
            Mishawaka, IN-MI Metropolitan Statistical
            Area, 586-MGT-2
       d. Letter from the American Federation of Government
          Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
          review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
          from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
          the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1
       e. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1
          - 2013 Update to Definition of
            Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC Metropolitan
            Statistical Area, 588-MGT-1
       f. Review of the Augusta and Portland, ME Federal
          Wage System Wage Areas, 578-MGT-1
          - Alternate Analysis of the Portland, ME Federal
            Wage System Wage Area, 580-MGT-1
                                                                 3



                   C O N T E N T S (continued)

                                                              Page

IV. New Business..........................................9
    a. Determination on Lock and Dam Pay Practice
       (FPRAC Document 562-MGT-1), 591-OC-5
    b. Report on how counties should be redefined when a
       wage area is abolished, 591-OC-6
    c. Draft Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee
       Annual Summary, 2013, 591-OC-7
                                                                  4


                         P R O C E E D I N G

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Good morning, everyone, and

welcome to the 591st meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate

Advisory Committee.       My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chair of

the Committee, and as usual, why don't we go around the

table and have the FPRAC members introduce themselves.

            Mark, let's start with you today.

            MR. ALLEN:    Mark Allen with OPM.

            MR. SHULMAN:     Seth Shulman, Department of

Defense.

            MS. SCHULBERG:    Tracy Schulberg, Department of

the Navy.

            MR. FENAUGHTY:    Bill Fenaughty, NFFE representing

Metal Trades.

            MR. CANN:    Dave Cann with AFGE.

            MR. GREGORY:    Adair Gregory with NAGE.

            MR. LANDIS:    Steve Landis with ACT.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Thank you, and why doesn't

everyone else in the room introduce themselves as well.

Madeline?

            MS. GONZALEZ:    Madeline Gonzalez with OPM.

            MR. LYNCH:    Luis Lynch, Air Force.
                                                                 5


           MS. ROBERTS:    Brenda Roberts, Designated Federal

Officer.

           MR. BRADY:    Jim Brady, DoD.

           MR. FENDT:    Karl Fendt, DoD.

           MR. KISTNER:    Gary Kistner, DoD.

           MR. EICHER:    Mike Eicher, OPM.

           MS. WALLACE:    Terri Wallace, OPM.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Thank you.

           We will start with a few announcements.     The

first is the memo from OPM Director Archuleta to the heads

of the various agencies and departments regarding the

application of the 1 percent General Schedule pay increase

to FWS workers.   Are there any questions or discussion

about that?

           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   The next two items

deal with the RANGER III.     The first item is the OPM letter

approving DOI’s request to update the pay policy of the

Ranger III by placing the employees of the RANGER III on

the Detroit, Michigan, floating plant wage schedule instead

of the Northwestern Michigan wage schedule.      The second

item is my response to Captain Hanrahan's written comments
                                                                 6


on our December meeting.

         I assume there are no questions or discussion of

that, but I'll ask if there are.

         [No audible response.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Next on the agenda, there are

two tables that I thought would be of interest to people

showing how many of the FWS employees, appropriated fund,

then separately for nonappropriated fund, are paid less

than $10.10 per hour at this time.     Recognize, please, that

these estimates are upper bounds, because apparently, we

don't actually have data by step.     Since employee step

information is not available, the actual number of

employees with rates of pay under $10.10 is less than is

shown in these tables.      In some cases, the grades span the

$10.10 with some steps below it and some above it, so

that's an upper bound.     I thought this would be useful

information to people.

         Are there any questions or discussion of that?

         Yes, Dave.

         MR. CANN:    Have we discussed the possibility of

perhaps assembling a work group to make a recommendation on

addressing this?   Because I think it's well raised.    I
                                                                7


think it's important information and something that's been

on our radar.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Well, we do have a work group

established.    We could have a discussion.   We don't have a

meeting today with the work group, but it could be referred

for discussion.    Is there anything in particular you're

thinking of regarding --

         MR. CANN:    Well, I'd imagine that -- I don't want

to speak too hastily on behalf of this side of the room,

but I would imagine that we would want to make a

recommendation that these employees be brought up to making

at least $10.10 per hour , and I think that, for

establishing parity and appreciating the administration's

overall initiative, which was reflected in the State of the

Union and the Executive Order, our agency counterparts

might want to agree with us to make a recommendation that

the employees be brought up to making at least $10.10 per

hour.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Any discussion of that?

         MR. ALLEN:    I think we would be okay with

discussing that in the working group to see what the

possibilities are, and if there's anything administrative
                                                                  8


that could be done.   It might require legislation.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.    So then we will put

that on the agenda for our next working group meeting,

which will be after our March 20th FPRAC meeting.

          That brings up the minutes of our last month's

meeting, which I believe people have had a chance to

review.   I hope you have, anyway.     Are there any other

corrections to the transcript of our last meeting beyond

what we have heard from people about already?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Hearing no additional

corrections, unless there is some objection, we will adopt

that transcript.

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Hearing no objection, the

transcript is adopted.   Thank you.

          That brings up Old Business.      Two of the items

under Old Business, we might be able to move on.      I hope we

will in fact move on at our next meeting based on some of

the New Business we have before us today.     That would be

items (b) and (f), both of which are connected to some of

the New Business items we have.
                                                                          9


            So unless somebody wants to bring up an Old

Business item now, we can move on to New Business.           Is

there any Old Business item that people want to bring up

now?

            [No audible response.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Okay.    That brings up New

Business.    I'd ask that we start with item (c), which is

the FPRAC Annual Report from 2013.          I would appreciate a

motion to adopt it and then we can discuss it.           If people

have any objections to it, they can bring them up then.              Is

there a motion to adopt the report?

            MR. LANDIS:   I'll make a motion of that.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      And is there a second?

            MR. ALLEN:    Second.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Okay.    Any discussion of the

Annual Report?

            [No audible response.]          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:

            There are only three Management members here

today which means that we do not have a quorum in order to

vote for consensus to adopt it.        Mark, is it possible to

contact the other management members and ask if we have

consensus?
                                                                10


         MR. ALLEN:     I will get in touch with a couple of

the other management members who aren't here today.     I'm

pretty sure they're okay with approving this, but I'll

touch base with them.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     All right.   Subject to that,

we will adopt the report.

         So that brings up item (a) under New Business

which is a report from the working group on the Corps of

Engineers Lock and Dam pay practice. Is there any

discussion of that?     Are there any questions about it?

         [No audible response.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     I don't know if we need to

formally adopt this in some way.    I guess it's just advice

from the working group to FPRAC.    Any thoughts about what

action we need to take on this?

         MR. ALLEN:     Mr. Chairman, usually what we have

done in the past is, if there is a working group

recommendation that comes back to the Committee that's

linked up with something     already on the agenda, such as

Old Business Item(b), Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice

for Federal Wage System Lock and Dam employees, under 562-

MGT-1, and if the members of the Committee agree with the
                                                               11


working group recommendation, then we can go ahead and

approve the Old Business item under (b).

            MR. CANN:    I have one question about it.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Sure, go ahead.

            MR. CANN:    It may betray my inexperience with

this.    It makes sense that if we were to adopt the change,

there would be winners and losers.      About 26 percent of the

people would be moved to a regular wage schedule with lower

rates.   About 18 percent of the people would be moved to a

regular wage schedule with higher rates.

            I don't know if there is something that is within

the scope of what was in the review to address those that

would be winners and see if there is any nimble solution

that would bring up the 18 percent that would be losers.       I

don't know if that was part of the review or if it was

something within our ability to address in order to bring

up those folks that would be moved to a lower wage

schedule.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Does the Management side have

any response on that?

            MR. ALLEN:    No ideas came about as a result of

the working group discussions that would have enabled the
                                                              12


working group to come up with a recommendation to say that

there would be some way of increasing pay for those who

would go on to a lower wage schedule.

         They would be covered by pay retention, but some

people think that's a positive and others think that's

still a negative.

         And of course, the winners, so to speak, would go

on to higher wage schedules, but there was no idea

expressed from the working group that would get around

that, that way of implementing a change like that.

         MR. CANN:    I don't know if it's worth discussing.

Again, I am betraying my relative inexperience.    I don't

know if there is a mechanism that exists that we could

discuss here that might be able to help bring some parity

to that or not, or if there is no such mechanism.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Why don't we defer a decision

on this Old Business item until next month, and then

between now and then, if we come up with any ideas on that,

we can bring them up then.    Hopefully, next month, we can

resolve this longstanding Old Business item.

         MR. CANN:    Okay.   Appreciate it.

         MR. ALLEN:   One other possibility is to send this
                                                              13


issue back to the working group if there is a need to do

that, even though the working group agreed to send this

issue back to the Committee.

         MR. CANN:   The resources of knowledge probably

outpace mine by a significant amount.     I wouldn't object to

that.

         MR. FENAUGHTY:    We actually spoke about this at

the working group.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Right.

         MR. FENAUGHTY:    We didn't come up with any idea

on how to make the employee pay any better than what it

actually is.

         Steve, do you remember?

         MR. LANDIS:    Yes.

         MR. CANN:   Well, I apologize.    I don't want to

beat a dead horse.   So if it's been fully explored -- the

question comes from my lack of understanding.    I don't want

to hold up something that's been vetted.     It sounds like

that may be the case.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Well, given how long we've

waited on this, one more month won't kill us, but I really

would like us to decide next month.
                                                                   14


            MR. ALLEN:   It doesn't matter if we wait a little

bit.   Especially since the recommendation is to make no

change.

            MR. CANN:    Okay.   Well, I apologize if my hiccup

was --

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     No, no.   That is what you are

here for.    Don't apologize.

            And that brings up New Business item (b), the

Report on How Counties Should Be Redefined When a Wage Area

is Abolished.   That one is, more or less, tied with (f)

under Old Business.

            Essentially, what we are saying is FPRAC should

retain flexibility.      We don't need a regulation.    We don't

want to propose one regarding how abolished wage areas

would be handled.

            Any discussion of that?

            [No audible response.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Again, I very strongly hope

that we can address item (f) next month in light of our

working group report.

            Does this one need any action beyond that?

            MR. ALLEN:   No, I don't believe so.     This
                                                               15


recommendation from the working group doesn't actually have

a recommendation in it that would require a change in

regulations by OPM.   So I don't think this has any

permanent effect on Committee discussions about some of the

Old Business items or any future wage areas that we will be

discussing.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   Any other matter that

we need to discuss this morning?

         [No audible response.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    If not, it would be in order

for us to adjourn.    Is there any objection to that?

         [No audible response.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Hearing no objection, we are

adjourned.    Thank you very much.   See you next month.
