                                                       1


        FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

                        572nd FPRAC

         SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding

                  Thursday, March 8, 2012

                         Room 5526
              Office of Personnel Management
                     Washington, D.C.

ATTENDANCE:

Members/Alternates:
  Management Members
  MARK ALLEN, Office of Personnel Management
  SETH SHULMAN, Department of Defense
  DARLENE FREEMAN, Department of Air Force
  CARLOS SAAVEDRA, Department of Navy
  ANN MARIE HANNON, Department of VA (via telephone)

 Labor Members
 WILLIAM FENAUGHTY, NFFE, representing MTD
 KEITH HILL, AFGE (via telephone)
 JACQUELINE SIMON, AFGE (via telephone)
 SARAH SUSZCZYK, NAGE
 STEVEN FISHER, ACT

Staff Specialists and Visitors:
  JEROME MIKOWICZ, Designated Federal Officer,
  Office of Personnel Management
  MADELINE GONZALEZ, Office of Personnel Management
  TERRI AVONDET, Office of Personnel Management
  SEAN REILLY, Office of Management and Budget
  H.L. ROVAN, Department of Defense
  JIM BRADY, Department of Defense
  KARL FENDT, Department of Defense
  CRAIG JERABEK, Department of Defense
  CHRIS LYNCH, Department of Defense
  TAMMY VANKEUREN, Department of Air Force
  BARBARA WALKER, Department of Army [via telephone]
  DENNIS PHELPS, MTD
                                                              2
Recording Secretary:   FEBBIE GRAY

[Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]
                                                                3
                       C O N T E N T S
                                                        Page

I.     Opening/Announcements
       • Introductions......................................5
       • Announcements
         - Charter for the Federal Prevailing Rate
           Advisory Committee, 572-OC-1.....................7
         - Membership Balance Plan for the Federal
           Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee, 572-OC-2.....7

II.    Review of the Minutes of 571st Meeting

III.   Old Business
       a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2
          - Total Employment in the Eastern Tennessee
            Wages Area by County, 566-OPM-1
          - List of FWS Wage Areas with Fewer than 500
            Employees, 566-OPM-2
          - Review of Criteria for Defining Appropriated
            Fund Wage Areas, 545-OC-1 [REPRINT]
       b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns
          - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on
            Survey Issues Work Group, 561-OC-1
       c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal
          Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1
       d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
       e. Letter from the American Federation of Government
          Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
          review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
          from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
          the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1
       f. Report of the Wage Area Definition Study Group,
          570-MGT/LBR-1.....................................9

IV.    New Business
       Updates to 570-MGT/LBR-1.............................
       • New York
         - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions
         - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability
         - Section IX. Implementation Plan
         - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule
         - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules
         - Section XIII. Other Appropriate Factors

IV.   New Business (continued)

      • Hartford
        - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions
        - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability
        - Section IX. Implementation Plan
        - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule
        - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules
        - Section XIII. Other Appropriate Factors
      • Boston
        - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions
        - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability
        - Section IX. Implementation Plan
        - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule
        - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules
      • Philadelphia
        - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions
        - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability
        - Section IX. Implementation Plan
        - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule
        - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules
      • Washington
        - Section VI. Viability of Wage Surveys
          (definition of "orphan" counties in the
          Hagerstown-Martinsburg-Chambersburg, MD wage area
          and viability of Harrisburg, PA wage area)
        - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions
        - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability
        - Section IX. Implementation Plan
        - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule
        - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules
        - Section XII. Unintended Consequences and Remarks
      • San Francisco
        - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions
        - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability
        - Section IX. Implementation Plan
        - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule
        - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules
        - Section XII. Unintended Consequences and Remarks
                                                              5
              C O N T E N T S (continued)
                                                       Page

IV.   New Business (continued)
      • Los Angeles
        - Section VII. Set of Revised Wage Area Definitions
        - Section VIII. Lead Agency Wage Survey Capability
        - Section IX. Implementation Plan
        - Section X. Effective Date of Change in Wage Schedule
        - Section XI. Potential Set of Revised Wage Schedules
      • Other Locality Pay Areas
                                                                   6


                      P R O C E E D I N G S

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Good morning, everyone.   Sorry

about the slightly late start.    We've got some folks on the

phone this morning.

         My name is Sheldon Friedman, and welcome to this 572nd

meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee.        As

usual, why don't we go around the room and introduce ourselves,

and then we will get to the folks on the phone.

         Why don't you start, Mark?

         MR. ALLEN:     Mark Allen with OPM.

         MR. SHULMAN:     Seth Shulman, Department of Defense.

         MS. FREEMAN:     Darlene Freeman, Air Force.

         MR. SAAVEDRA:     Carlos Saavedra, Department of the

Navy.

         MR. MIKOWICZ:     Jerry Mikowicz, the Designated Federal

Official for this meeting.

         MR. FENAUGHTY:     Bill Fenaughty, NFFE.

         MR. PHELPS:     Dennis Phelps, IBEW.

         MS. SUSZCZYK:     Sarah Suszczyk, NAGE.

         MR. FISHER:     Steve Fisher, ACT.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     And if the folks on the phone

could introduce themselves, please?
                                                                7


          MS. HANNON:     Ann Marie Hannon, VA.

          MS. WALKER:     Barbara Walker, Department of Army.

          MS. SIMON:     Jacque Simon, AFGE.

          MR. HILL:     Keith Hill, AFGE.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Thank you.

          And then let's go around the sides of the room,

please.

          MS. AVONDET:     Terri Avondet, OPM.

          MS. GONZALEZ:     Madeline Gonzalez with OPM.

          MS. VANKEUREN:     Tammy Vankeuren, Air Force.

          MR. BRADY:     Jim Brady, DoD.

          MR. FENDT:     Karl Fendt, DoD.

          MR. JERABEK:     Craig Jerabek, DoD.

          MR. LYNCH:     Chris Lynch, DoD.

          MR. ROVAN:     Hank Rovan, DoD.

          MS. GRAY:     Febbie Gray, OPM.

          MR. REILLY:     Sean Reilly, OMB.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Welcome, everyone.

          We have a couple of announcements.      Folks have

received them.   These are, more or less, bookkeeping

requirements under the FACA legislation that the General

Services Administration oversees.
                                                                    8


          The first item, 572-OC-1, is our charter for FPRAC.

Every 2 years, we need a new one.   The old one is about to

expire.   The new one is before you for your information.     The

second item is the Membership Balance Plan for FPRAC, 572-OC-2,

which I've been told is a new GSA requirement for FACA

committees.   It simply states what our past practice has been

with respect to membership on FPRAC.

          Any questions about either of these documents?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Review of the minutes of the 571st

meeting will have to await our next meeting. Since this is an

extra meeting, we actually don't have them ready yet.

          Which brings us to old business, and I would suggest

we skip down to item (f), the Report of the Wage Area Definition

Study Group, 570-MGT/LBR-1.

          We had a 10th and final meeting of the Wage Area Study

Group on February 29th.   I believe everyone now has the

subsequent material that has come through that study group as

well as a transmittal memo from me, the Chair of the study

group, to members of FPRAC, and an executive summary.      You have

in addition documents submitted by DoD, and a letter from

several meetings back that Barbara Walker has requested be
                                                                9


considered for inclusion in the report that comes out of this

Committee.

         563-OPM-1, Statement for the Federal Prevailing Rate

Advisory Committee, was Director Berry's charge to us to review

in depth the October 2010 FPRAC recommendation.   We now have the

report of the study group before us plus these other

supplementary materials, and we have the very important task of

getting back to Director Berry pursuant to his request to us as

to whether or not we favor implementation of that October 2010

recommendation and whether the study group report before you,

either as is or with changes that this group would want to make,

should be passed on to him.

         I would not anticipate that we will finish the

discussion today but am hopeful that we will do so at our

meeting next week.

         As to how we proceed on this discussion, I am open to

suggestion.   It does seem to me that there are three

possibilities:   forward the study group report as is, amend it

in some way, or not forward it.   Those seem to be the three

possibilities.

         So, with that, let me just throw the floor open and

see how people want to proceed with the discussion.
                                                                10


         MR. ALLEN:   Mr. Chairman, maybe a good starting point

would be for me to quickly summarize what's in the report and

what we were asked to do.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Okay.

         MR. ALLEN:   I'll go back to the reason why we

established a study group and why we have prepared what looks

like a 600-page report on how the October 2010 FPRAC

recommendation could be implemented if Director Berry chooses to

implement the recommendation.

         The October 2010 FPRAC recommendation in my mind was

framed as more of a concept than something that could be

immediately implemented.    As we see from the work that the study

group was engaged in, we have several hundred pages of

documentation now that could be provided to Director Berry to

show him in more detail and far more depth how the   original

FPRAC recommendation could be put into place through the

regulatory process of issuing proposed regulation and final

regulation.

         Briefly, what Director Berry asked FPRAC to take

another look at was an in-depth analysis determining to the

extent possible a potential set of revised wage area

definitions, a potential set of revised wage schedules, the
                                                               11


number of wage employees, changes in pay, and use of pay

retention (where applicable), the viability of surveys in

remaining portions of revised wage areas, the capability of the

lead agency to conduct surveys in remaining portions of revised

areas, an effective implementation plan and time table with the

highest priority areas for initial implementation, findings of

any unintended consequences and applicable remedies, and any

other appropriate factors to be considered if the FPRAC

recommendation proposal were to be implemented in whole or in

part after the pay freeze ends.

         As Chairman Friedman has mentioned, the study group

met 10 times.   I think we made a great deal of progress in

addressing the questions that Director Berry posed to the

Committee.

         I would like to thank Madeline Gonzalez in particular

for leading this project.   I think the work that is reflected in

the report is outstanding work, and I would also like to thank

Terri Avondet, Joe Ratcliffe, and Mike Eicher of OPM's Pay

Systems Staff for helping out with the report as well.

         I think the report mostly addresses the questions that

were posed.

         As the executive summary to the document shows, we
                                                               12


covered a lot of ground.   However, there are a couple of things

that the study group did not reach consensus on, and those

documents, I believe, have been provided to the Committee for

its consideration, but I will turn this over to the DoD staff to

explain those documents.

         MR. SHULMAN:   Okay.   As Mark just noted, we have

submitted two separate documents that were broached during

various study group meetings that are at the moment not included

in this study group report, and we believe strongly that in the

interest of transparency and for the fullness of understanding

of what the issues are that ultimately the bill payers -- the

Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and

other Federal agencies who employ FWS employees -- will have to

face, we believe that these documents should be submitted as

part of the findings of the study group.

         As noted, the DoD staff who participated in the study

group noted some challenges with the existing proposed

implementation plan, and we have submitted 572-DOD-1 as a

document that would accompany this report, if it were sent at

all, and I’m talking about a suggested alternative means of

implementation.

         I won't get into the weeds on what is discussed in
                                                               13


this, because we all have copies of it, and you have the ability

to read it.   Presumably, members of this Committee who attended

the study group meetings are also familiar with it.

         The second document that DoD would like submitted with

this report is a list of unintended consequences, which frankly

are significant.   Aside from the fact that there's been really

no business case established or business need identified to

increase prevailing rates for any of these affected employees

and the total cost to the Department of Defense at a minimum

could actually approach a half-a-billion dollars over the FYDP

by the time you fully burden each position to which an increase

is applied and including all the orphaned counties, we'll set

the $500-million price tag or roughly $500-million price tag

aside for the moment.   We will wind up with pay inequities

across the Department if this were to be implemented the way

it's discussed.

         We will have overcompensated certain employees.      We

will have undercompensated other employees in the same pay

system, in the same locality.   We will have essentially a multi-

tiered compensation system where none existed previously.     There

will be challenges in gathering data to deal with increases in

prevailing rates, because we will no longer be able to match up
                                                               14


to actual prevailing rates in industry.

         There are design flaws that we believe need to be

considered and rectified if, again, this is to go the way it is.

         Future changes to General Schedule boundaries are

impossible to predict at this stage.   We don't know what will

happen, and as a result, these prevailing rates may also be

impacted at that point.

         So we have submitted 572-DoD-2 for the Committee's

consideration as part of this.   Again, in the interest of

transparency, everyone who's a decision-maker needs to have all

the facts in front of him or her, and I think we would be doing

Director Berry a disservice if this type of information was not

part of the submission as it currently stands.

         Finally, as requested, as you know late yesterday, the

Department of the Army asked for inclusion in this report, the

letter identified as 566-MGT-1 that as the Chairman mentioned

was read into the record several meetings ago that describes

Army's serious and significant concerns with implementation of

this type of proposal and its significant impacts to their

ability to run an effective and efficient business operation in

at least one location.

         Since it has been read into the record already, it is
                                                                15


a matter of public record.      It is something that this Committee

has heard, and honestly, we see no reason why, again, in the

interest of the fullness of the facts and transparency that this

should also not be considered as part of the submission of this

report.

           MS. SIMON:    This is Jacque Simon from AFGE.   Thanks

for that, Seth, and also, Mark, thank you for your description

of what preceded today's meeting, and I also want to thank the

OPM staff who worked so hard on this.      It's a tremendous amount

of work, as everybody can see before them, and really

high-quality work.      And we're extremely grateful for everybody's

professionalism and conscientious effort to get this done within

a short time frame.

           With regard to DoD's proposed additions, we really,

really disagree strongly with a lot of what's written in these

documents and which you must sort of read through.     Most

importantly, what's called an "alternate implementation plan" is

not in fact an alternate implementation plan.

           And, you know, you kept saying decision-makers need

facts.    These aren't facts, and one of the problems is that this

is an alternative proposal.      It would be one thing if it were an

alternative means of achieving the end envisioned in AFGE's
                                                                  16


proposal.    It is not an alternative means for achieving that

end.   It is a means to achieve an alternative end.   It is not an

implementation plan for the proposal that the work group

studied.    It is not.   It is a completely different proposal.

            And by all means, if the Army wants that kind of plan,

they should go ahead and propose it to FPRAC, and then we will

study that plan, but this is not an implementation plan for our

proposal.    That's Item 1.

            Item 2 is, you know, you just read into the record the

number half-a-billion.    That is not an accurate cost estimate.

It's a cost estimate that's about 250 million dollars more than

the cost estimate that OPM prepared, and given that facts

matter, there's no reason to exaggerate its cost.     So it's

almost like a rhetorical thing:     A billion here, a billion

there, soon you're talking a lot of money.     Well, let's not use

the word "billion" unless we're somewhere in the neighborhood of

billions.    We're talking at worst, at most, you know, given that

we get pay increases in the future of 1.1 percent, something in

the neighborhood of 300 to 350 million over 10 years, not

half-a-billion.    So let's not say half-a-billion.

            In addition, as far as the unintended consequences,

almost all of these substantive unintended consequences in your
                                                                  17


unintended consequences document would be consequences of this

alternative plan that DoD has proposed, not of our proposal.

          We have dealt with orphan counties, and we would not

have a multi-tiered system with the implementation plan that the

OPM study put forward.   The multi-tiered, you know, "crazy

quilt" is a result of DoD's alternative, not the AFGE plan as

described in the work group report.

          The other thing is, on the third document -- I mean,

we could discuss this further.    I don't want to, you know,

dominate the discussion.    Regarding the letter from the

commander -- I don't know if she's a commander or what her

position is at Tobyhanna.   I don't know if she's even still

there.   As you noted, that was read into the record of FPRAC.

Surely, the Director has access to our minutes and the public

record of what has transpired at FPRAC meetings.      God knows

there were numerous letters and individuals who testified for

the record at FPRAC who were in favor of this proposal, and

people who the Director has as much responsibility to listen to

as this particular individual from Pennsylvania.

          So, you know, are we going to include as part of the

report every piece of testimony and every letter that was

written on this subject?    No, that's unnecessary.   It's an
                                                                  18


unnecessary duplication.    These materials are easily available

to the Director if he wants to go back and look over the record.

So the third item is entirely unnecessary.        It's just redundant,

and it doesn't have a place in this report.

           And we do not think that the other two documents do,

either, partially because they are, you know, not responsive to

the Director's request.    They are not germane to the proposal.

They are an alternative proposal, and the unintended

consequences are really a part of DoD's plan for an alternative

proposal, and they are not really reflective of consequences of

the implementation of our proposal.

           So I'll leave it at that.

           MR. SHULMAN:   Okay.   I think we're going to agree to

disagree on Items 1 and 2, and I'm not going to belabor that,

but I will tell you how we arrived at the number, which I stated

earlier.

           The $337-million number over a 5-year FYDP, as

identified by OPM staff, is not our number.       That's OPM's

number, if I'm correct in that, Mark.     Okay.    And by OPM's own

admission, that number may very well be on the low side.

However, that is simply a salary dollar number.        That does not

account for a fully burdened amount of money.       When I say "fully
                                                                    19


burdened," when we pay an individual, we also include on top of

that an additional 36.76 percent for all of the various benefits

and entitlement costs that go with each position.

           MS. SIMON:     Well, we all know that's going down, don't

we?

           MR. SHULMAN:    Regardless of that, we have to include

the cost for the bill payer, and that would be, in this case,

the Department of Defense, and the Department of Veterans

Affairs.   So that number, the total final number has to be

reflective of what the sum outlay for each Federal Department is

going to be.   So, when you multiple 36.76 by $337 million, you

wind up with $460.88 million, and this number, as also

established by OPM, does not include the orphan counties.

           So my rounding close to half-a-billion dollars is not

out of line with what the actual cost will be to the government,

okay?   I'm not making these numbers up.      This is actually how we

do the calculations.

           So, when you get right down to it, we are just trying

to arrive at what the true cost is, and ultimately, the burden

has to be paid by the American taxpayer, okay?       So the numbers

are what they are, and they may well be on the low side.       They

might be slightly high.      We won't know.   But I will tell you
                                                                   20


that to do the right math, you have to include the fully

burdened cost.    That's how we do the budgeting for these sorts

of things.

           And every individual activity that has employees does

it exactly the same way, and I will look to my colleagues from

Air Force and Navy who are sitting at the table with me.        And

OPM will bear this out.      This is how we do the math.   I'm not --

           MS. SIMON:     Oh, I don't --

           MR. SHULMAN:    -- making these --

           MS. SIMON:     -- think anybody would --

           MR. SHULMAN:    -- numbers up.

           MS. SIMON:     -- disagree that that's how you do the

math.   I just think that in the executive summary, it is

described as the additional wage cost.       I mean, it's not

misrepresented.

           MR. SHULMAN:    Okay, gotcha.    But the true cost has to

be identified.    Ultimately, that's what the bill payer has to

worry about.

           In that particular case, that would be us, and there

is a direct impact to the Department's ability to carry out its

mission when you increase costs across an organization the size

of ours.
                                                                 21


         You know, when you talk about it on an individual

case-by-case basis, it doesn't seem like a lot of money.       Just

like the half-percent salary increase that Congress may or may

not vote on this year, that for us individually doesn't cost a

lot, but for the government as a whole, it's a little bit more

than that.   It's about a billion dollars, I'd say.    So you can't

look at this on the individual level. You've got to look at it

in the aggregate, and that's why I use the numbers I do.

         They're not meant to shock.      They are very real

numbers, and there is a very real impact to a Department that is

currently engaged in efficiencies and effectiveness studies with

regard to how we save money, and we still haven't faced the

issue of sequestration, which is also looming on the horizon.

And even if we don't have that, we are going to face more cuts.

         So the monies have to come from somewhere.      This is a

very real and legitimate concern that the Department's

leadership has.   I think the Director --

         MS. SIMON:     We're all --

         MR. SHULMAN:    -- would be --

         MS. SIMON:     -- aware of the budget situation.

         MR. SHULMAN:    Okay.

         MS. SIMON:     That may --
                                                                   22


         MR. SHULMAN:     The Director -- I mean, that's -- but

that should be --

         MS. SIMON:     But nobody --

         MR. SHULMAN:     -- part of the --

         MS. SIMON:     Nobody --

         MR. SHULMAN:     -- consideration.

         MS. SIMON:     -- needs to persuade anybody in this room

or on this call.

         MR. SHULMAN:     No, that's fine.    All we're saying--

    CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Let me make a suggestion then.

         MR. SHULMAN:     All we're saying is that Director Berry

should have that number in front of him.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Let me make a suggestion that

others on either side of the table who haven't spoken yet might

want to have an opportunity to weigh in.      Anybody?

         MR. FENAUGHTY:     I agree with Jacque.   I don't think

that these dogmas should be part of the report.

         You know, there is no way that anybody would want to

or could stop DoD from submitting it to Director Berry or OMB or

anybody else they want to, but I don't believe they should be a

part of the report itself.

         MR. PHELPS:    I agree --
                                                                   23


          MS. SUSZCZYK:    I agree.

          MR. PHELPS:     -- that they should not be.

          MR. SAAVEDRA:    I believe as much information as we're

able to provide must be forwarded, noting that no business case

was established as to why the proposal was introduced in the

first place.   What is it that we were trying to fix?       That was

never established.   So we have to be fully up front, engaged to

note we're not fixing anything, and it's going to cost this

much.

          The cost to the Federal Government, to the taxpayer is

this, and Director Berry must know that.     It just needs to be

said.   These are facts.

          MR. PHELPS:     Fine, send it to him as your comments to

the report.

          MR. SAAVEDRA:    No, this Committee should be

responsible in providing the information.     We have the

information.

          MR. PHELPS:     Well, I think Jacque was right.    You

know, this proposal has already been voted on and sent to

Director Berry.   All he asked for was certain --

          MR. SAAVEDRA:    Were the facts.

          MR. PHELPS:     -- specific information.
                                                                   24


            MR. SAAVEDRA:    What he asked for were facts.

            MR. PHELPS:     Certain specific information afterwards

--

            MR. SAAVEDRA:    And the facts.

            MR. PHELPS:     -- and that counter-proposal is not what

was asked for.    He didn't ask for a counter-proposal.      He asked

for facts that were out there and how it would be implemented,

and I don't believe that those documents reflect what the

Director asked for.

            If DoD or Navy or Army wants to submit, you know,

these other documents to show what their counter-proposal to the

proposal would be, then they're more than welcome to, but I

don't believe they should be a part of the report of this

Committee.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Can I just ask a clarification

question?    And we don't actually have motions before us yet, but

are some of the Management folks saying that if these three

pieces were included in the report that you would then support

by consensus sending it to the Director?

            MR. SHULMAN:    That's a fair question.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I just want to understand what

exactly we're talking about here.
                                                                    25


            MR. SHULMAN:    That's a fair question.   I think we

probably want to step outside for a few minutes and talk about

that.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Do you want to have a caucus?

Okay.

            So the folks on the phone, we are going to have to cut

you off and then get you back.

            MS. HANNON:    All right, thank you.

            MS. SIMON:     Okay.   Should the labor people stay on the

phone or --

            MR. PHELPS:    Yeah.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     I guess you can.   It would be

simpler, right?    Yeah.

            [Off the record for Management caucus.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Management is back from its

caucus, and we are back in session.

            Is there anything that you folks want to report back

from the caucus?

            MR. SHULMAN:    Pursuant to your request, Mr. Chairman,

you had a question for us, and we took the opportunity to

discuss your question at caucus, and we've come back with a

question.
                                                                26


           We would like to know what Labor's position would be

regarding incorporating DOD-572-1 and DOD-572-2 and the list of

all documents supporting or opposing the original AFGE proposal

that have already been submitted into FPRAC for the record in

the final report of the working group's analysis, as requested

by Director Berry in 565-OC-2.

           MS. SIMON:   Well, we probably need to caucus, but my

first reaction is that this is another thing that might delay us

because of the time it would take to gather all those materials.

           MR. ALLEN:   Jacque, I think our plan, regardless of

what happens today, is for Madeline to put the documentation

together in a final format that can go forward to Director

Berry.    It’s going to take her a little while to do that since

the report is so voluminous and we have to add the other

documents, because they are already part of the FPRAC record.

That shouldn't --

           MS. SIMON:   Well, I'll --

           MR. ALLEN:   -- take too long.

           MS. SIMON:   -- tell you one thing, before we even

caucus.    AFGE would insist on inclusion of an additional

document that responds to the so-called implementation plan B

and the so-called unintended consequences B, because, you know,
                                                               27


there was no sort of sense that, okay, if it wasn't written

today, it can't go forward, if that's going to be the -- you

know, if it's going to be a thousand pages rather than 600

pages.   That would definitely -- I know AFGE would insist on a

written response.

          As it was, we were expecting, regardless of how it

went today, that DoD would be submitting to the Director their

documents, and we would be submitting our refutation of those

documents -- or of the, you know, arguments put forward in those

documents.

          If those documents become part of the official work

group report, you know, it could put us back weeks or months

until we have several more meetings where we discuss the AFGE

response to the DoD documents, which is why it makes so much

more sense for DoD to, you know, put forward their documents,

you know, independently as sort of a dissenting report or

whatever, in which case we would submit additional documents as

well, but we can't just stop the clock today and say anything

not in today can't go if DoD's stuff goes.

          I mean, obviously, you know, we can always just write

a letter to the Director, but I guess everything would depend on

how much delay this would entail.
                                                                   28


            MR. PHELPS:    To me, it would seem redundant to put

everything --

            MS. SIMON:     It's already way, way --

            MR. PHELPS:    -- in on --

            [Simultaneous speaking.]

            MS. SIMON:     -- way, way, way, way, way behind

schedule.

            MR. PHELPS:    That's all -- you know, all the other

stuff that's already been submitted is already there.

            MS. SIMON:     Right.

            MR. PHELPS:    The one that Army read into the record a

while back is already there, you know.        It would just seem to me

like we'd be burdening down this to stick everything in there,

and I don't think -- I personally wouldn't agree to do it just

so DoD can get what they want in today, you know.

            As Jacque said, you know, they can always submit it to

Director Berry as not part of the report.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Well, do you want to say

something?

            MR. SHULMAN:    Yeah.    I would just make an observation.

We weren't intending -- the last item was not an idea -- the

idea is not to submit the actual documents but a page with
                                                                    29


references of those documents, so not the actual papers

themselves, but there have been a number of items that have been

submitted for the record in this room.       Then we would simply

reference those items as an appendix to the report, nothing

more, nothing less.     We're not talking—

         MS. SIMON:     As a --

         MR. SHULMAN:     -- about --

         [Simultaneous speaking.]

         MS. SIMON:     As a substitute for the letter from that

Marriott guy?

         MR. SHULMAN:     That would be the Deputy Chief of Staff

for Tobyhanna.   Yes.

         MS. SIMON:     Yeah.    Mr. Marriott.

         MR. SHULMAN:     Through Dr. Duncan who is the Army G1

for Civilian Personnel Policy.

         MS. SIMON:     Right.

         MR. SHULMAN:     But, yes, it wouldn't be a substitute.

Your point was well taken that there had been a lot of other

things submitted, and I was agreeing with you that, yes, we want

those to be included in the record too.       It's part of the

fullness of the --

         MS. SIMON:     No, no, no.
                                                                   30


         MR. SHULMAN:     -- of the disclosure.

         MS. SIMON:     I hear what you're saying.   What I'm just

asking you, instead of the actual --

         MR. SHULMAN:     Yes.

         MS. SIMON:     -- copy of --

         MR. SHULMAN:     Yes.

         MS. SIMON:     -- Mr. Marriott's letter.

         MR. SHULMAN:     Yes, exactly right, just as --

         MS. SIMON:     It would be a page with a lot of

references?

         MR. SHULMAN:     You got it.

         MS. SIMON:     Is that what you are envisioning?    I'm

just trying to understand what you're saying.

         MR. SHULMAN:     Yes, just a reference page.    You got it.

         MS. SIMON:     Okay.    Well, you know, that's a separate

issue from those other two DoD documents.

         MR. FENAUGHTY:     Do you mean all three of these

documents?    One reference?

         MR. SHULMAN:     572-DOD-1 and 572-DOD-2, as submitted

today for discussion, we would like to know what your position

is going to be if we tabled this as a motion with regard to

putting these in the report.
                                                                       31


            MS. SIMON:     Well, and we're responding back that if

you want to have these things in the report, then, you know, the

unions are going to have a refutation in the report, which is

why we want this to, you know --

            Well, how about this, Seth, if we could just step back

a second.    Is your proposal that Management is fine with

submitting this document to Director Berry with your

implementation plan, your unintended consequences, and a page

full of references?

            MR. SHULMAN:    We haven't actually determined that, but

we're asking what Labor's position would be on that.          Do you

think that we would be able to reach consensus if that were the

case?

            MS. SIMON:     Well, do you?

            MR. SHULMAN:    I would like to think so.

            MS. SIMON:     Well, okay.     I mean, that's the question

before us.

            MR. SHULMAN:    Yes.   So you said you might need to

caucus for that.    We believe that we might be able to reach

consensus on submitting the report with those two documents --

with DoD Items 572 DOD-1, 572-DOD-2, and a list of references

attached, but that --
                                                                32


         MS. SIMON:     Okay, I guess we --

         MR. SHULMAN:     -- really depends on --

         MS. SIMON:     -- do need a --

         MR. SHULMAN:     -- Labor's position.

         MS. SIMON:     -- caucus then.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    So, did I hear a request for a

caucus, does Labor need one?

         MR. PHELPS:    I don't think we need to caucus.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.

         MR. PHELPS:    I mean, if the rest of Labor would like

to, you know, we could certainly do that, but I wouldn't be able

to support that.

         MR. FENAUGHTY:     Nor ACT.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I guess that answers the question

that there would not be consensus to proceed then.

         MS. SIMON:     Can we have a caucus?

         MR. PHELPS:    Sure, we can, Jacque.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    You can certainly have a caucus.

         [Off the record for Labor caucus.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Labor has finished its caucus, and

we are back in session.    Do you folks have something to report

in response?
                                                               33


         MR. HILL:    Yeah.   Mr. Chair, this is Keith Hill.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Yes, Keith.

         MR. HILL:    I'd like to make a motion that we advance

the report to Director Berry sans Management's counter-proposal

as is, and I am asking for a second on that motion.

         MS. SUSZCZYK:    Seconded.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   It's been moved and

seconded to send the report as is from the study group to

Director Berry.

         Well, we can start discussion on that or we can -- if

there's a motion to postpone, we can take that up.

         MS. SIMON:     I think the discussion is pretty much what

we had earlier.   You know, there's certainly nothing to prevent

DoD from submitting additional materials, including a reference

to all the letters and testimony for and against this proposal

that have been provided to FPRAC, and, you know, the unions will

do the same, but the document is what it is.     It's a product of

the work group, and OPM's staff and you know, we all had lots of

input as it was being prepared, and it's ready.     It's ready for

the Director.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any discussion?

         MR. SHULMAN:    That is but one view, and I would not
                                                                   34


submit that we are prepared to vote on this today.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any discussion?

         MR. SHULMAN:     Nor discuss it today.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Nor discuss it today.

         Well, you can make a motion to postpone consideration

until the next meeting.

         MR. SHULMAN:     We so request motion to postpone until

next week.

         MR. ALLEN:     And seconded.

         MR. HILL:    I think there's a motion on the table

already, isn't there?

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.    Well, there is, but I think

a motion to postpone, if there's consensus on it -- maybe

there's not.   Maybe people want to go ahead.     If there's not

consensus on the motion to postpone, then we'll go back to the

main motion.

         MR. HILL:    We will --

         [Simultaneous speaking.]

         MR. HILL:    I am unfamiliar with FPRAC procedure.      Will

it follow Robert's Rules of Order?

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    We do follow Robert’s Rule of

Order, except the Chairman is ignorant of them.      So if I'm
                                                                     35


violating them, let me know.

          MR. HILL:    Well, I think there's a motion on the

table.   I don't consider the motion to postpone a friendly

amendment.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:       Okay.   I guess -- let me see.

          MR. HILL:    So I guess we have to --

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:       So there would not be consensus

then to postpone this until a week from today?

          MS. SIMON:    No.     Well, I don't know.   Want to do a

vote?

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:       Unless there's any further

discussion on either side, we can vote.

          MS. SUSZCZYK:       Are we voting on the first motion or

the motion to postpone?

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:       We'd be voting on the -- the

motion to postpone would only be if by consensus, so we're--

          MS. SUSZCZYK:       Okay.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:       About which there does not appear

to be consensus.

          MS. SIMON:    Okay.     So are we going to vote?   Are we

done with the discussion of the other motion?

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:       We are discussing Keith's motion,
                                                                  36


and Management has requested a caucus.

           MS. SIMON:     Okay.

           [Off the record for Management caucus.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Management has concluded its

caucus, and we are back in session.

           Would you like to report anything from your caucus?

           MR. ALLEN:     We have a substitute motion to introduce,

a substitute to the main motion that AFGE made.      Management

would like to introduce a substitute motion to incorporate

572-DOD-1 and 572-DOD-2 and a list of all documents supporting

or opposing the AFGE proposal which have been submitted to FPRAC

for the record into the Final Report of the working group's

analysis as requested by the Director of OPM in 565-OC-2.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Is there a second for that?

           MR. SHULMAN:    Second the motion.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     So, if I'm correct in my Rules of

Order, we debate that one first.

           MR. SHULMAN:    I believe that's right, yes.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Any response or debate on that?

           MR. PHELPS:    We've already had the debate on that

earlier.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Okay.
                                                                  37


          MR. FENAUGHTY:     We already talked about it.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   Are we ready to --

          MR. SHULMAN:     We would merely remind the Committee

membership that we were asked to do this.     The Director gave us

specific instruction.     He said it in 565-OC-2 that this should

be in the report.    We haven't done anything other than what the

Director has asked for in making this motion, and failing to

adhere to the Director's request is in itself going to be a

little bit of a challenge for this Committee to explain.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any further discussion of the

substitute motion?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    If not, I believe we're ready to

vote.   Do you want to poll people, Madeline?

          MS. GONZALEZ:    Who is voting?   We only have four

Management members present now because Ann Marie Hannon at VA

had to disconnect from the phone temporarily.     Which four

members are voting on the Labor side, please?

          MR. FENAUGHTY:     I'm voting.

          MS. GONZALEZ:    And one AFGE member.   Okay.

          MS. SIMON:     What about one AFGE member?   What are you

talking about?
                                                                     38


           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      There are only four Management

representatives present, so one Labor representative needs to

recuse himself or herself.

           MS. SIMON:    That's in our rules?

           MS. GONZALEZ:    Yes.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Yes.    It doesn't affect the

outcome.

           MS. SIMON:    Okay.    Keith, do you want to vote for

AFGE?

           MR. HILL:    Sure.    Which proposal are we voting on

first?

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      We're going to vote first on the

substitute motion just offered by Management to incorporate 572-

DOD-1, 572-DOD-2, and the list of items that have been submitted

or appeared at our meetings pertaining to this matter.          So

that's the motion.

           Is that substitute motion clear to everybody?

           MR. FENAUGHTY:       Well, I just have a question.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Sure.

           MR. FENAUGHTY:       I'm not an expert on Robert's Rules of

Order, but I'm not sure a substitute motion could be an--

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      An amendment?
                                                                   39


         MR. FENAUGHTY:    -- amended motion, another motion.

I'm not trying to split hairs.      I just think we should get it

right.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.     I appreciate that.   I think

it would be an amendment to the main motion.      It's taking

Keith's motion and saying --

         MR. FENAUGHTY:    Changing it.

         MR. HILL:    Actually, actually it's a separate and

distinct proposal or amendment or motion.      It's not --

         MS. SIMON:    It's not a friendly --

         MR. HILL:    -- an amendment --

         MS. SIMON:    -- amendment --

         MR. HILL:    -- to my motion.

         MS. SIMON:    -- anyway.

         MR. HILL:    It's not a friendly amendment.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Right.     So what does that mean

procedurally?

         MS. SIMON:    It's an amendment --

         [Simultaneous speaking.]

         MS. SIMON:    -- by way of a substitution.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Are you saying we need to vote?

         MR. FENAUGHTY:    It is two separate motions.
                                                                 40


         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.    So does that mean we need

to take up the first motion first?      I'm happy to do it in

whichever order is correct from the parliamentary standpoint.

         MS. SIMON:     I think you take up the first -- Keith,

you take up the first motion first, right?

         MR. HILL:    I would say so.

         MR. SHULMAN:    However, this motion is the precursor,

the natural precursor in terms of order of operations to the

motion that Keith submitted.    So absent consideration of this

motion first, we are not able to entertain the previous motion

at all, really.

         MS. SIMON:     I mean, you can entertain it.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Yeah, but which one--

         MR. HILL:    You can amend the --

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    -- is the question.

         MR. HILL:    -- motion, but you can't change the motion.

         MS. SIMON:     You can't have your subsequent motion

voted on before the original one, given that it's not a friendly

amendment to the existing -- to the first motion.       I mean, it's

not like you're changing "of" to "to."

         MR. SHULMAN:    Well, we would ask you then to kindly

pull your motion until we have determined the outcome of this
                                                                 41


one.

         MS. SIMON:     Well, no, we want to vote on our motion

first.

         MR. HILL:    The motion stands.

         MR. SHULMAN:     I don't think we can vote on it, not

without consideration of our motion.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Well, I think it's been considered

in debate.   I mean, I don't know what further consideration --

         MR. SHULMAN:     The vote then would be on an incomplete

-- from our perspective, from Management's perspective, it would

be on an incomplete report.      We're asking --

         MS. SIMON:     Well, then you --

         MR. SHULMAN:     -- for consideration --

         MS. SIMON:     -- vote against --

         MR. SHULMAN:     -- of the documents --

         MS. SIMON:     -- it.

         [Simultaneous speaking.]

         MR. SHULMAN:     The documents will be in there.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Yeah.   I guess you then vote no,

right, if that's --

         MR. FENAUGHTY:     Just vote no against it and then go to

your amendment.
                                                               42


         MS. SIMON:     I mean, you vote against it, so that we

can vote on other things, and, you know, we just proceed.

         MR. SHULMAN:     Again, I don't see how you vote on what

AFGE has proposed when the --

         MR. HILL:     Well, the motion to --

         [Simultaneous speaking.]

         MR. HILL:     -- submit your documents should have been

proposed before my amendment.

         MR. SHULMAN:     I don't know how you can vote on it and

ignore the fact that the Director has asked us for certain

things to be included in the report that no one is interested in

entertaining.

         MR. PHELPS:     Well, that's your opinion.   That's not

our opinion, and there's a motion on the floor, and I'll call

the motion.

         MR. SHULMAN:     All right.   So, if there's a difference

of opinion, I think that there is something -- there's a clear

legal issue at stake here.    So we probably need an attorney to

tell us whether it's appropriate or not.

         MR. PHELPS:     Yeah, but Robert's Rules of Order says

that when a motion is called you have a vote.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     We just need to follow Robert's
                                                                  43


Rules of Order.   Does anybody know them in this room or on the

telephone?

          MS. SIMON:     I know them --

          MR. PHELPS:     I know them fairly well --

          MS. SIMON:     -- backwards and forwards.

          MR. PHELPS:     -- and I know once a motion is on the

floor, the motion --

          MR. HILL:     Well, you have to vote on --

          MR. PHELPS:     -- is called, you have to vote.

          MR. HILL:     -- the first amendment first, unless there

is a friendly amendment to the amendment.

          MR. PHELPS:     That stops debate.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Okay.    Then let's vote.

          MR. HILL:     The debate was held already.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Okay.    So I'm going to state the

motion.   The motion is to send the report that we have received

from the study group as is to Director Berry.       Did I state it

correctly?

          MS. SIMON:     Yeah.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     All right.

          MS. HANNON:     Hi.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Did somebody just join us?
                                                                      44


         MS. HANNON:     Yeah.       This is Ann Marie calling in.    I'm

in transit now, so I should be able to rejoin the meeting.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:          Okay.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        So we have 5 Management and 5 Labor

members now.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:          Okay.

         MR. HILL:     It's 5 and 5 now.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:          Ann Marie, we're just about to

vote on Keith's original motion, which is to send the report

that FPRAC received from the study group as is to Director

Berry.

         So do you want to call the roll for voting, Madeline?

         MS. GONZALEZ:        Okay.    MTD?

         MR. FENAUGHTY:        Yes.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        AFGE? Jacque?

         MS. SIMON:     Yes.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        AFGE? Keith?

         MR. HILL:     Yes.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        NAGE?

         MS. SUSZCZYK:        Yes.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        ACT?

         MR. FISHER:     Yes.
                                                                    45


         MS. GONZALEZ:     OPM?

         MR. ALLEN:     No.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        DoD?

         MR. SHULMAN:     No.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        Air Force?

         MS. FREEMAN:     No.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        Navy?

         MR. SAAVEDRA:        No.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        VA?

         MS. HANNON: No.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        Mr. Chairman, the vote is 5 to 5.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:          So we have a tie, and it's up to

me then to resolve this.       I vote yes.     I believe we should send

this report on.   I believe those who have a different view on

the Management side should feel every encouragement to get their

view to Director Berry.

         [Technical disturbance:           Loud Telephone Audio Noise.]

         MR. SHULMAN:     It's not necessarily in conflict.        You

can now vote to amend the report.

         [Technical disturbance:           Loud Telephone Audio Noise.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:          We now vote on Mark's motion to

incorporate 572-DOD-1, 572-DOD-2, and a list of documents
                                                                46


supporting or opposing the AFGE proposal which have been

submitted to FPRAC for the record into the final report of the

study group that was requested by the Director of OPM.

         [Technical disturbance:    Loud Telephone Audio Noise.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    There is a motion on the floor,

which is the one we are now voting.

         MS. SIMON:    And that is the motion to delay until next

week a vote on the motion to include the other items?    I mean,

there are two motions on the floor, right?

         [Technical disturbance:    Loud Telephone Audio Noise.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      I'll state the motion again.

It's the motion that Management offered, which is to incorporate

572-DOD-1, 572-DOD-2, and a list of items that have been

submitted to FPRAC on one side or the other side of the table on

the underlying issue that we're considering, into the study

group report.

         MR. HILL:    Mr. Chair, I would submit that that's

already been addressed in our previous vote.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Well, that's what I thought, too,

but Management would like a recorded vote on that, and there’s a

motion before us.    So I don't know of any reason not to have the

vote.
                                                                 47


         [Technical disturbance:       Loud Telephone Audio Noise.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:       Unless there's further discussion,

I suggest we vote.    Any further discussion of it?

         MR. SHULMAN:     Yeah.    I would like to make a few

observations again.     Going back to what Director Berry asked us

for in 565-OC-2:     The working group will review all of the

information developed for the analysis as outlined above.       If

any working group member does not agree with OPM's proposed

methodology for any of the analysis, the working group chair

will provide a reasonable amount of time for discussion of

alternatives.   If consensus or creative resolution is not

reached in a timely manner, the working group chair will note

any remaining differences of opinion for the record, with a

summary explanation and opportunity for more detailed

explanation for the record and move forward on the study.       Any

such notes may be made part of the final report at the request

of any party.

         And so technically we don't need to vote on this.

Management requests for these documents to be made part of the

final study report.

         MS. SIMON:     Seth, this is Jacque.    What you just read

suggests that the Chair should summarize the disagreement.
                                                                    48


            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     That document was FPRAC's

instruction to the study group, I believe.

            [Technical disturbance:      Loud Telephone Audio Noise.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     So we have a motion before us

that's been seconded.       I'll state it -- I guess I've stated it

already.    I don't need to state it again, do I?

            MR. FENAUGHTY:     Not for me.

            MS. SIMON:     Yeah.   Can we just clarify that what Seth

just read was not the Director's instructions to FPRAC but the

FPRAC's instructions to the study group?

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     That's correct.

            MS. SIMON:     And, you know, the issues on which there

wasn't consensus could have been summarized by the Chair;

however, these weren't issues on which there -- my contention is

these are not issues about which there weren't consensus.          These

are separate issues.       This is a different proposal.

            MR. SHULMAN:     My observation would be certainly from

what the DoD staff has shared in that there was quite a bit of

discussion on these items in the working group, and there was no

consensus reached, so I have to take them at their word,

honestly.

            MS. SIMON:     Oh, no, no, no.   There was plenty of
                                                                  49


discussion, and the discussion was these documents were

irrelevant to our proposal.

         MR. SHULMAN:    I don't know that that's an accurate

reflection of how the DoD staff feels about them.

         MS. SIMON:     No, of course not, but that's --

         MR. SHULMAN:    Then there is a lack of consensus.

         [Simultaneous speaking.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Okay.   Any further discussion?

         [No audible response.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     If not, I suggest we vote.

         MS. FREEMAN:    Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to say that

as far as the submission of additional information -- you're

saying that the paragraph read earlier by Seth in 565-OC-2--that

this was not from the Director, but that this is what the charge

is for the FPRAC working group, if that's the direction that

they were going in the beginning, regardless of the working

group, then that's what everybody was thinking, and this is what

they were charged with doing.

         So, you know, there's no need to change it at the end.

If this is what they thought that they were charged with, this

is what they were supposed to be doing, then this is what, you

know, the Committee ended up doing, so this is why we're saying
                                                                50


that the information or whatever should be there, because we

thought that this is what the working group was charged with.

         MR. PHELPS:   Well, those of us that were involved,

this is what we ended up doing, not the document submitted right

towards the end by DoD.

         MS. WALKER:   This is Barbara.     May I address the

Committee?

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Sure.

         MS. WALKER:   I was involved with many of those working

group meetings, and there was quite a bit of discussion about

additional documentation that could be provided into the study.

And it was the consensus -- well, we didn't even have to come to

a consensus according to our rules.

         What we were told is any additional information that

we had that was relevant to the cause at hand could be provided,

and that's what we've done.   And it seems now that the union

members are preventing Management from providing that

documentation.   I don't understand that.

         MS. SIMON:    Barbara, this is Jacque Simon from AFGE.

         You know, our contention is not the way, what you just

described.

         MS. WALKER:   Well, it absolutely is, Jacque.     We --
                                                                51


         MS. SIMON:     I'm sorry, but it's --

         MS. WALKER:    -- discussed it --

         MS. SIMON:     -- not.

         MS. WALKER:    -- in the meeting.

         MS. SIMON:     I mean, we don't think that the

alternative proposal is responsive to our proposal.

         MS. WALKER:    I'm not even talking about the

alternative proposal.    I'm talking about Management having the

ability to provide additional relevant documentation in the

study.

         MS. SIMON:     Well, see, that's the key thing.

         MS. WALKER:    The document that I asked to be included

had already been read into the record.    Providing it to Director

Berry in conjunction with this study is very relevant, because

that paper was relevant to your proposal.

         MS. SIMON:     You're back to Mr. Marriott's letter?

         MS. WALKER:    I'm back to any documentation that is to

be supplied to help the Director make a well-educated decision

on this proposal.

         MS. SIMON:     Barbara, are you just coming into the

conversation right now for the first time this morning?

         MS. WALKER:    No, I'm not.
                                                                52


         MS. SIMON:    Oh.   Because I thought, you know, that we

had sort of moved on to a different proposal from Management,

which was not Mr. Marriott's letter by itself but a page of

citations of all material that had been introduced to FPRAC,

testimony letters, et cetera relevant to the proposal.

         MS. WALKER:    Right.

         MS. SIMON:    It wasn't just Mr. Marriott's letter, but

--

         MS. WALKER:    Exactly.

         MS. SIMON:    -- it sounds like you're talking about

just Mr. Marriott's letter?

         MS. WALKER:    No, I agree with DoD's proposal to

include any relevant documentation into this survey report.

         MS. SIMON:    Well, are you proposing a new motion which

would exclude the alternative implementation thing and the

so-called unintended consequences and just the list of relevant

testimonies and letters?

         MS. WALKER:    No, I'm not.     I'm trying to get to the

bottom line of were we or were we not allowed to provide

additional information in this survey report.

         MS. SIMON:    I think -- I think not.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Okay.    Unless there's some
                                                                 53


further discussion, I believe we're ready to vote.

         MS. SIMON:     Okay.

         MR. HILL:    Could you please read the motion again?

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:       The motion is to incorporate

Documents 572-DOD-1 and 572-DOD-2 from today's FPRAC meeting

plus a list of items that are relevant to the underlying issue

that have been submitted to FPRAC, those three things,

incorporate them into the report that FPRAC will send to

Director Berry.

         Did I state the motion accurately?

         MR. ALLEN:     That is a fair representation, yes.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:       Okay.   And, Madeline, would you

call the roll?

         MS. GONZALEZ:     OPM?

         MR. ALLEN:     Yes.

         MS. GONZALEZ:     DoD?

         MR. SHULMAN:     Yes.

         MS. GONZALEZ:     Air Force?

         MS. FREEMAN:     Yes.

         MS. GONZALEZ:     Navy?

         MR. SAAVEDRA:     Yes.

         MS. GONZALEZ:     VA?
                                                                    54


         MS. HANNON:     Yes.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        Metal Trades?

         MR. FENAUGHTY:        No.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        AFGE?    Keith?

         MR. HILL:     No.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        AFGE?    Jacque?

         MS. SIMON:     No.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        NAGE?

         MS. SUSZCZYK:        No.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        ACT?

         MR. FISHER:     No.

         MS. GONZALEZ:        The vote is a tie.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:          What a surprise.   Well, I have to

cast the deciding vote.       I vote no -- [inaudible].

         [Technical disturbance:          Loud Telephone Audio Noise.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:          And we'll try in the transmittal

memo to convey the extent of this disagreement and the fact that

there will be additional materials provided to the Director in

very high probability from the Management side.

         With that, I want to reiterate thanks that Mark

offered at the outset to Madeline, to Terri, to everyone else

who did such hard and long work on this report.          Thank you all,
                                                                        55


and thanks to all the participants in the study group and our 10

meetings and all the work we did.           Thank you all here today.    I

know everybody is not happy with the outcome.           There would have

been no way for that to be possible.

            Is there any other business that needs to come before

us today?

            MR. PHELPS:   Motion to adjourn.

            MR. ALLEN:    Second.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Okay.    I bet there is no objection

to that.    So we've got consensus on something.

            MR. FENAUGHTY:    One out of seven ain't bad.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Yeah.

                               •-•-•
