                                                                1

              FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

                             588th FPRAC

               SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding

                      Thursday, November 21, 2013

                               Room 5526
                    Office of Personnel Management
                        Washington, D.C. 20415


ATTENDANCE:

Members/Alternates:

     Management Members:
     Mark Allen, OPM
     Seth Shulman, DoD
     Pamela Sokol, Army

     Labor Members:
     Bill Fenaughty, MTD
     Jacque Simon, AFGE
     Robert Shore, NAGE
     Steven Landis, ACT

Staff Specialists and Visitors:
     Jeanne Jacobson, Designated Federal Officer, OPM
     Madeline Gonzalez, OPM
     Jennifer Dorsey, OPM
     Darlene Freeman, Navy
     Jim Brady, DoD
     Gary Kistner, DoD
     Karen Kurian, DoD
     Kermit Howard, DOI
     Crystal Gailes, DOI NPS
     Dennis Phelps, MTD


Recording Secretaries:    Mike Eicher and Terri Wallace

  [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]
                                                               2

                          C O N T E N T S

                                                        Page
I.     Opening/Announcements
       • Introductions.....................................4
       • Announcements.....................................5
         - FPRAC's FY 2013 Federal Advisory Committee Act
           (FACA)Report, 588-OC-1
         - 2013 Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey Results:
           Report by Demographics FWS Responses, 588-OC-2

II.    Review of the Minutes of 587th Meeting..............6

III.   Old Business........................................6
       a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2
          - 2013 Update to Review Lee County, Virginia,
            586-MGT-1
       b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns
          - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on
            Survey Issues Work Group, 560-OC-1
       c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal
          Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1
       d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
          - 2013 Update to Definition of South Bend-
            Mishawaka, IN-MI Metropolitan Statistical
            Area, 586-MGT-2
       e. Letter from the American Federation of Government
          Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
          review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
          from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
          the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1
       f. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1
       g. Proposal for FPRAC review of the Federal Wage
          System Appropriated Fund and Non-Appropriated
          Fund Operating Manuals, 575-AFGE-1
       h. Suggestion for a research paper on the history
          of the Federal Government's prevailing rate
          system
       i. Review of the Augusta and Portland, ME Federal
          Wage System Wage Areas, 578-MGT-1
          - Alternate Analysis of the Portland, ME Federal
            Wage System Wage Area, 580-MGT-1
       j. Project to update wage area maps
       k. Department of the Interior's Special Vessel
          Schedules, 585-OPM-1
                                                                    3

                          C O N T E N T S

                                                       Page

IV.   New Business.........................................8
      a. 2013 Update to Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-
         Morganton, NC Metropolitan Statistical Area,
         588-MGT-1
      b. Department of the Interior’s Special Vessel Schedules
         - Options for Revising the Pay Policy Covering the
           Crew of the Ranger III Vessel, 588-OPM-1
         - DOI-NPS Response to FPRAC Chairman November 2013, 588-
            OC-3
         - OPM FOIA 2013 and S-1 Authority (Submitted by Captain
            Hanrahan), 588-OC-4
         - 2012 and 2013 Military Sealift Command Maritime Wage
            Schedules 588-OC-5, 588-OC-6, 588-OC-7
                                                                      4


                          P R O C E E D I N G

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Good morning, everyone, and

welcome to this, our 588th meeting of the Federal Prevailing

Rate Advisory Committee.    My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chair of

the Committee.

          As usual, why don't we go around and introduce

ourselves, and let's start with you, Bill, and welcome back.

          MR. FENAUGHTY:    Thank you.    Bill Fenaughty, Metal

Trades Department, NFFE.

          MS. SIMON:    Jacque Simon, AFGE.

          MR. SHORE:    Rob Shore, NAGE.

          MR. LANDIS:    Steve Landis, ACT.

          MR. ALLEN:    Mark Allen with OPM.

          MS. SOKOL: Pamela Sokol, Army.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    And we'll hope a few more

Management members show up shortly.      Meanwhile, if the folks

around the edge of the room could also introduce themselves,

please?

          MS. JACOBSON:    Jeanne Jacobson, OPM, Designated

Federal Officer.

          MS. GONZALEZ:    Madeline Gonzalez with OPM.

          MS. FREEMAN:     Darlene Freeman, Department of the Navy.
                                                                       5


            MS. GAILES:    Crystal Gailes, National Park Service,

with the Department of the Interior.

            MR. HOWARD:    Kermit Howard, Department of the

Interior.

            MS. WALLACE:   Terri Wallace, OPM.

            MR. PHELPS:    Dennis Phelps, Metal Trades Department.

            MS. DORSEY:    Jennifer Dorsey.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.    I have a couple of quick

announcements.   I imagine everyone knows that we do have our new

Director here at OPM, Katherine Archuleta, but just in case

somehow you have been off on vacation for the last 3 weeks, I

will mention that.

            Also, FPRAC’s FY 2013 Federal Advisory Committee Act

(FACA) Report (588-OC-1) is included in your folder.        I assume

there's no questions on it, but in the unlikely event there are

questions, let us know.

            Also in your folder under 588-OC-2, are a couple of

the questions relating to pay satisfaction from the latest

Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey where you can see what the

answers were for the FWS folks as compared to other Federal

employees over the last few years.        If there are any questions

about that or discussion, we can entertain that.
                                                                      6


           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    If not, let's move on to the

review of the transcript of our last meeting, the September

meeting.   I hope we can adopt it.    Does anybody know if we can

adopt it with only three management members and four labor

members present?

           MR. ALLEN:    Yes.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    We can.   All right.

           Any further changes beyond those that we have heard

from you already?

           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    If not, then I will assume that it

is acceptable for us to adopt the transcript.      Going once,

twice, three times.     Transcript is adopted.   Thank you.

           On our Old Business list, there are some things that

have been listed for an awfully long time, some of which are

really not that active, and so at the next meeting, we will have

a list of things that we could remove from the list and ask your

consent for us to do that.

           In terms of things that we are still working on, some

of these items are being discussed in the Working Group.         Is

there anything that people want to bring up today from the list
                                                                       7


of Old Business items?

          MS. SIMON:     Well, I can tell you that item (e) is

something that we are continuing to work on, but I'm not sure

that FPRAC needs to do any more work on it.       But it's certainly

an issue that's still alive.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Sure.   It's covered by the

recommendation that we have passed on to the Director with

regard to the larger issue, of which it is a part and which is

still pending.

          MS. SIMON:     Right.

          MR. ALLEN:     I would just say that Director Archuleta

is aware of this issue.    She has been briefed on it, and a

decision hasn't been reached on it yet.      It is under

consideration.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Regarding the project to update

the FWS Wage Area maps and the new software, we did receive one

recommendation and suggestion from a Committee member.       What I

was going to suggest is, if people are interested, that we have

a demonstration in the next Working Group meeting, not today but

the next one when OPM staff is available to do it, demonstrating

the capabilities of the software, what might it do differently

in terms of the mapping, just so we have a better feel for how
                                                                      8


it works.   So that might be in, let's say, January if that works

out.

            MR. ALLEN:   I think it's a good idea if everybody

would like to see it.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Because I at least would like to

see it.

            MS. SIMON:   Yeah.   I'm very interested also.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   Then we can offer more

intelligent input as to ideas.

            Well, unless there's anything further on Old Business,

we can move on to New Business.     The first item is a further

review based on the latest MSA updates of the definition of

Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, North Carolina, MSA, 588-MGT-1.

            Mark, would you like to summarize that for us, please?

            MR. ALLEN:   Yes, Mr. Chairman.

            588-MGT-1 is really just an update to a document

previously introduced under 575-MGT-1.        The findings from the

update are really no different than they were in the original

Management recommendation, which is to no longer split the

Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, North Carolina, MSA between two

different wage areas.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any questions or discussion?
                                                                   9


          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Well, for my own 2 cents on this

one, I found it a little troubling.   Applying the regulatory

criteria clearly points as the analysis shows, although one

could quibble.   The commuting clearly is a lot higher in the

Charlotte direction.   Even though it's very low commuting, it's

much, much higher in one direction than the other, and the

distance, although close, does point differently, depending on

whether you're measuring cities or installations.   But

nevertheless, the strict application of the regulatory criteria

point one way, and yet if you know anything about that area, the

economic pull of Charlotte, particularly for counties that are

on the Charlotte side of that MSA, is clearly a lot stronger.

I'd just point that out as an observation.   The actual economic

pull versus strict application of the regulatory criteria, in my

mind, anyway, point in two different directions.    I don't know

what people want to make of that, if anyone agrees or disagrees.

          But any further discussion of that?   It would be nice

if we could clean up our list of business.   This is a new item

but also pertains to an older item.

          MS. SIMON:   And what is the impetus for this change?

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Basically, the current wage area
                                                                   10


definition splits an MSA, which the regulations say we can’t do.

So in order to not split the MSA, there's basically two ways you

could go.   You could move the whole MSA into Asheville, or you

could move the whole MSA into Charlotte. But the regulatory

criteria point to Asheville if you strictly apply them, per the

staff analysis here.

            MR. ALLEN:   The only exception should be if there's

some kind of extraordinary circumstance which would compel OPM

to not have the Metropolitan Statistical Area in just one wage

area.   Based on my review, I haven't really picked up on any

reason for that based on any kind of extraordinary circumstance.

            MS. SIMON:   But the difference in distance is

negligible?

            MR. ALLEN:   Distance to city favors neither.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Well, it actually favors

Charlotte, right?

            MS. SIMON:   It favors Charlotte.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   By a hair, you know, admittedly

not by much.

            MS. SIMON:   It might alter based on route, and then

the other one from the host to the host is a negligible

difference.
                                                                    11


           I don't want to vote on this until I have had a chance

to look into it more.   Just by coincidence, this is -- the VA

Medical Center in Salisbury is where our National President

worked for 25 years, and I think that the point that the

Chairman makes might be very relevant to this in terms of

economic integration of the counties, given that the distance

criterion is hardly a clear case of one versus the other.   I'm

not familiar with the area at all.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Well, we can defer this, but at

some point, I really feel we're going to need to address our

backlog.

           MS. SIMON:   Yeah.

           MR. ALLEN:   Our analysis on 588-MGT-01 shows that

distance to the closest cities favors neither.    Distance to the

closest installation marginally favors Asheville.

Transportation facilities and geographic features, neither of

those are really pushing in one direction or the other.

Commuting patterns, not much of a difference, -–so it really

does not favor one wage area more than another.

           MS. SIMON:   Do we have enough people here today to

vote?

           MR. ALLEN:   No.
                                                                      12


           MS. SIMON:   So we couldn't vote anyway.   We don't have

our quorum really.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   No.

           I mean, the commuting, I would just say I agree it's

small, but it's way, way higher in one direction versus the

other.   It's almost zero versus almost 1 percent.    Now, 1

percent is not very much, but I think it does point to a greater

degree of integration and economic pull.

           MS. SIMON:   Yep.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Anyway, so I guess we're going to

defer this, but we’ve got to get back to it and decide.

           The other New Business items are in regard to the

Department of the Interior’s Special Vessel Schedules.      We have

a number of new pieces of data on that topic.    Under 588-OPM-1,

Mark put together a list of options for revising the pay policy

covering the crew of the RANGER III vessel.     Document 588-OC-3

is a response from the Department of the Interior on some of the

questions that we asked at our previous meeting.      The next one,

document 588-OC-4 is the FOIA letter that Captain Hanrahan

shared with us and asked us to introduce.     And recently added to

the agenda under 588-OC-5, 588-OC-6, and 588-OC-7 are the

Maritime Schedules that we received from Jim Brady at DOD.
                                                                      13


Unfortunately, he is caught in traffic and has not arrived yet,

because I want to ask him some questions about the schedules.

            Is there any discussion that any of you would like to

have on this issue?      I'd really like us to get this one

resolved.

            I guess one thing that I'd find helpful, Mark, is if

you could review the options that are listed in 588-OPM-1, and

also clarify what is within our purview to do at FPRAC and what

the Director of OPM could do or could not or would not be able

to do based on a recommendation that she might get from us.

            So, for example -- and please listen, Mark, to make

sure I'm stating this accurately -- on the issue of Maritime

Schedules, it is not within OPM's purview to tell another agency

that they have to use the maritime rates in a given situation.

Director Archuleta might recommend that the maritime schedules

be used if that were to be our FPRAC recommendation to her and

she agreed with that recommendation.      But it would not be a

requirement on the other agency to implement her recommendation

to use the maritime schedules.

            Did I say that right?

            MR. ALLEN:   Yeah, that's right.   That's also the case

with the set-aside schedules, which is the type of schedule
                                                                    14


currently used for the RANGER III vessel.    It is a set-aside pay

practice, which is really an agency pay system, because it's

never been brought into the Federal Wage System, since the

Federal Wage System was created in 1972.

          MS. SIMON:    So what's our purview in this case?

          MR. ALLEN:    OPM received a letter from the Department

of the Interior asking OPM to look into the pay practice for the

crew of the RANGER III, and OPM is acting on that by bringing

the Department of the Interior's request to FPRAC, so that FPRAC

can make a recommendation, if it so chooses, to OPM, and then

OPM would respond back to the Department of the Interior with

FPRAC's recommendation and anything else that the Director of

OPM would like to include.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Can I just interrupt, Mark, and

ask our newcomers to introduce themselves for the recorder,

please?

          MR. SHULMAN:   Seth Shulman, Department of Defense.

          MR. KISTNER:   Gary Kistner, Department of Defense.

          MS. KURIAN:    Karen Kurian, Department of Defense.

          MR. BRADY:    Jim Brady, Department of Defense.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Welcome to all of you.

          MR. BRADY:    Thank you.
                                                                     15


           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   We were discussing the Department

of the Interior's Special Vessel Schedules issue.

           Please continue, Mark.

           MR. ALLEN:   Okay.   I can run through the options for

revising the pay policy covering the crew of the RANGER III

vessel in 588-OPM-1, if everybody is okay with that.

           MS. SIMON:   Yes.

           MR. ALLEN:   Option one, no change.   If FPRAC made this

recommendation, OPM would respond back to the Department of the

Interior that the current set-aside pay practice should continue

for the crew of the RANGER III.     Rates would continue to be set

at Step 3 of the FWS regular wage schedule for the Northwestern

Michigan wage area.     That level is determined under the

Department of the Interior's classification system for the crew

members.

           That's one of the key difficulties with this case.

The Department of the Interior classification system is a

separate classification system and does not comply with the

Federal Wage System standard way of classifying jobs because

there are no OPM developed and approved job rating standards for

the crews of vessels.

           We do have floating plant schedules and Hopper Dredges
                                                                        16


schedules, but those are under the Army Corps of Engineers'

classification system.        That's one of the obstacles for

developing a new pay system for the RANGER III.

             Option two.    Continue as a set-aside special schedule

using rates from the Northwestern Michigan wage schedule, but

add steps.    This would establish a five-step rate range.       The

pay practice for the vessel would remain a set-aside pay

practice, again, because of the classification system.

             Option three.    Continue as a set-aside special

schedule, but base rates on the Detroit, Michigan, floating

plant, other than Hopper Dredges schedule, using five steps.

This is the Department of the Interior, National Park Service

proposal under 585-OPM-1.

             Option four.    This is one that Captain Hanrahan

mentioned in his proposal.        Continue as a set-aside special

schedule but base rates on the Hopper Dredges schedule, using

the five-step rate range.        WJ-12 to WJ-16 would be limited to a

single step 2 rate.        Note that there are two Hopper Dredges wage

schedules:    Atlantic and Gulf Coasts and West Coast.      Again,

this would be a continuation of the set-aside pay practice,

meaning that this would be up to the Department of the Interior

to administer.
                                                                     17


          Option five is to pay the RANGER III crew prevailing

maritime rates under 5 USC 5348.   As our Chairman has mentioned,

choosing this option is not something that OPM can dictate.

It's a finding that the employing agency that operates a

maritime vessel, in this case, the Department of the Interior,

has to make on its own, and then it must set the rates of pay

for crew members on the vessel, according to prevailing rates in

the maritime industry.

          If the Department of the Interior agreed to establish

rates under option five for the RANGER III crew according to

prevailing maritime rates, then OPM's involvement would only be

to eliminate the mention of the RANGER III from the Appendix V

of the OPM Operating Manual for the Federal Wage System.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Any questions or discussion?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   One question that I have for

everyone is to ask if we now feel we have sufficient information

in our hands to make a recommendation, or do we have more

questions based on the new information that we received?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I have a few questions.

          Jim, thank you for sending the maritime schedules.     I
                                                                    18


have a question about whether Great Lakes data are collected and

included in whatever survey is done for purposes of compiling

that schedule.   Do you happen to know?

           MR. BRADY:   I don't happen to be aware of that

information.   I can contact our MSC representative and ask.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   I'd find that helpful to

know --

           MR. BRADY:   Sure.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   -- and in particular whether that

data is kept in a form that would identify the geographic

source, if I am making sense.   In other words, I understand the

schedule is -- let's say the Atlantic schedule is lots of data

from lots of sources.    I am wondering if the Atlantic schedule

includes the Great Lakes data, and if so, if one could parse

that data out from the rest of the data that's collected to see

what it looks like.

           Anybody have any other questions or discussion?

           MS. SIMON:   I have a question.   What gave rise to this

inquiry?

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   How did this come to FPRAC?

           MS. SIMON:   Yes.

           MR. ALLEN:   Under 585-OPM-1, the Department of the
                                                                   19


Interior sent a request to OPM to take a look at the set-aside

pay practice, along with a recommendation to change the pay

practice to use the floating plant schedule (other than Hopper

Dredges) for the Detroit Army Corps of Engineers area.

          That's why OPM has brought this to the agenda now, but

it's --

          MS. SIMON:    Is that basically the same sort of labor

pool working for those two employers, same kind of skill set,

same kind of work, or no?

          MR. ALLEN:    The Department of the Interior sent a

justification document over to us, 588-OC-3, which goes into

more detail as to why they feel that the Detroit floating plant

schedule (other than Hopper Dredges) is the best fit for the

crew of the RANGER III.

          In terms of other vessel schedules in effect within

the Federal Government, I can't speak for the Department of the

Interior on that.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    We can invite them to comment if

they want to, since they have some representatives here.

          MS. GAILES:    We have other vessels that are on the

Detroit schedule with other bureaus under the Department, so

there are other vessels that are using this.
                                                                     20


           MS. SIMON:    I guess that's one answer.   Yeah, thank

you.   I mean, that's what motivated this recommendation for

inquiry?

           MS. GAILES:   It's been a longstanding issue that we've

been trying to address, and so we did a lot of research on the

different pay schedules.    And using the Detroit floating plant

schedule (other than Hopper Dredges) was our final decision,

because there have been issues with retention.

           MS. SIMON:    What kind of issues with retention?

           MS. GAILES:   It's been difficult at times.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Jacque, I know you weren't here at

that meeting, but Captain Hanrahan made a very extensive

presentation at the -- which was it?      August meeting, I believe?

If you have a chance -- he also submitted information to FPRAC,

and I believe that would address your question.

           MS. SIMON:    Okay.   Thank you.

           MR. GAILES:    There is also a letter from him in our

proposal if you get a chance to read it.

           MR. ALLEN:    It certainly does appear that the regular

wage schedule rates for the Northwestern Michigan wage area are

inadequate to provide the National Park Service with sufficient

tools to be able to recruit and retain a qualified crew for the
                                                                   21


vessel.    The Captain raised some concerns about the safe

operation of the vessel when the vessel is undermanned at

certain points of the year, because the pay rates are not

sufficient to be able to attract the right kinds of people to

work on the vessel.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   You've raised a number of issues

about the comparability of the jobs to their dry land equivalent

as well.

           MS. SIMON:   Well, do we have enough people here now to

vote, or is the Management side still down one member?

           MR. ALLEN:   There are not enough members to vote if we

needed to vote.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Is there a proposal?

           MR. FENAUGHTY:   I have a question.   Which one of these

five options gives the best current rate of pay, and best future

rate of pay?   Got a lot of options here.

           MS. SIMON:   I think option three, right, or is it

option four?

           MR. ALLEN:   Option one, of course, does nothing.

Option two provides more room within the existing rate range,

which probably is not enough to recruit and retain crew for the

vessel.
                                                                      22


          Under option 3, the Detroit Michigan floating plant

(other than Hopper Dredges) schedule is higher than Northwestern

Michigan wage schedule.   The Hopper Dredges schedule is really

always based on maritime rates.    It currently applies to

different kinds of vessels than the RANGER III.    The Atlantic

and Gulf Coast is one of the schedules, and then the West Coast

is another schedule.

          Maritime rates under 5 USC 5348, are an unknown.

Although we have data for what are essentially Military Sealift

Command rates, those might not be reflective of what the actual

pay rates would be for a comparable type of crew on the Great

Lakes -- or comparable type of vessel, if there are any, on the

Great Lakes.   We don't really know if the Department of the

Interior does a survey of maritime rates on Lake Superior, and

if they could find job duties that are comparable to those of

the crew of the RANGER III.    So that's why the Department of the

Interior says that this has been a longstanding issue.       It was

really an issue back when the pay practice for the crew was put

in a set-aside schedule in 1972.    They decided the best course

of action at that time was to use the regular schedule, and it's

now causing problems.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Well, I think that actually brings
                                                                  23


up another follow-up question, which is how the RANGER III crew

would fit on the maritime schedule.   It wasn't immediately

obvious to me what the rates would be if the maritime schedule

was applied to the crew.

          MR. PHELPS:   Sheldon, as I remember, wasn't option

four the one that Captain Hanrahan testified that he thought was

the best option to be able to recruit and retain crew members?

I imagine that option is the highest pay, which I think answers

the question Bill was asking earlier.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    My understanding was that the

Captain was in favor of that.   That was the basic disagreement

between DOI and the Captain, that DOI was favoring option three,

and he was favoring option four.

          Option five wasn't really in the mix, as a point of

discussion.   I don't know whether it should be or not.     It

seemed to me it's a vessel, and, you know --

          MR. ALLEN:    The Department of the Interior made the

determination in documents that they sent to OPM that that's not

an appropriate way to set pay for the crew of that particular

vessel, and they made stated reasons.    They found after

reviewing it that pay under 5 USC 5348 is not feasible because

there's insufficient maritime pay practice in the local area for
                                                                    24


setting pay for the crew of that vessel.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     I have to say I personally don't

quite understand that, given that there is a lot of shipping

commerce on the Great Lakes, but there may be a deficiency of

data in terms of Federal wage setting since the maritime

schedules appear to be based on ocean vessels and not lake

vessels, and that's why I asked my question to Jim earlier,

which was does that collection of data on which the maritime

schedules are based include some Great Lakes shipping data that

we could parse out to see.

          The maritime rates on the Great Lakes may be very

similar to the maritime rates on the oceans -- which personally

is my guess, but I don't know.    I haven't researched it so I

don't know.   If it were the case, then that might be a factor in

our thinking that option five could be used.

          MR. LANDIS:   Does DOI have an opinion on the potential

of option four?

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     I believe in their document to us,

they stated that they don't favor it and gave some reasons.      I'd

invite the Department of the Interior folks to comment on that,

if you want to, as to why you think either of the Hopper Dredges

schedules is not applicable to the RANGER III.
                                                                        25


          MS. GAILES:   We basically analyzed some of the

operations of the hopper dredge versus the operation of the

RANGER III and what the ship actually does, and referenced the

statistics of where the RANGER III operates in the -- mainly

Lake Superior area, taking materials, personnel, tourists from

the mainland to the island, basically all of their operation.

The schedule of that operation was also analyzed and it's not a

365 day operation.   It's basically a 40-hour regular week.        So

we have examples as to why we felt the hopper dredges schedule

wasn't as appropriate as the floating plant schedule.

          MR. LANDIS:   –In 588-OC-3, there is a wage schedule on

the last page.   Is that the floating plant schedule?

          MS. GAILES:   No, that's the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts

Hopper Dredge schedule.

          MR. LANDIS:   Oh, okay.    I'm sorry.   Right at the top,

it does say Hopper Dredge.     Do we have the wage schedule for

the floating plant here?

          MS. GAILES:   It is in our original proposal.

          MR. LANDIS:   All right.    I probably have that.   Is

there a big difference in pay?

          MS. GAILES:   You can see the difference in the pay for

the captain if you take a quick look in the additional
                                                                       26


documentation that we put forth.

            MR. LANDIS:   Okay.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     So I know this is a lot of

material.   One possibility is we defer this one more month, but

seriously resolve to come up with a recommendation next month,

giving everyone more time to review everything.       We could do it

that way, or is there some proposal that people want to make now

and have it discussed?

            MS. SIMON:    I think that there doesn't seem to be any

strong reason not to grant the proposal the Department of the

Interior made, is there?

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Well, the Captain doesn't think it

will solve his problems of recruitment and retention.        That's

his opinion.

            MS. SIMON:    Okay.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     I mean, that's his opinion.   He

may or may not be right about that.

            MS. SIMON:    He thinks they need option four.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     That's what he thinks.

            MS. SIMON:    Okay.   Is there any reason then not to

recommend option four?

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Well, that conflicts with what the
                                                                      27


Department of the Interior proposes – there is a conflict.       We

have to take a position on it.

          MS. SIMON:   Well, if the motivation is to solve a

recruitment and retention problem and there's only one option

that succeeds in solving that problem, shouldn't we support the

option that solves the problem?

          MR. ALLEN:   I think the Department of the Interior is

saying that option three, the floating plant schedule, is enough

for them to address the recruitment and retention problems.

          Captain Hanrahan has said that he would prefer option

four, which is to use the hopper dredge schedule, and for a

variety of reasons, the Department of the Interior believes that

using the rates from the floating plant schedule is the more

appropriate schedule to use, and that's what their proposal

states.

          MS. SIMON:   Okay.   I understand that, but, I mean,

just as a general rule, a manager at the operations level like

the Captain is probably more knowledgeable about the situation.

          MR. SHORE:   It's my recollection that his problem with

option three was that floating plant duties are not comparable

to the work that's performed on the RANGER III vessel, and that

he and his men and women do a lot more intense work that
                                                                     28


involves a wide range of tasks such as both working with

passengers and cargo material that could be hazardous.        That

combination could create a hazard to both the people onboard and

to the Great Lakes.     That was his reasoning for it not to be a

fair or a valid comparison.

          MS. SIMON:     Does somebody want to move that we

recommend option four?

          [No audible response.]

          MS. SIMON:     Okay.   I will move that FPRAC recommends

option four.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Is there a second?

          MR. ALLEN:     We don't actually have enough people here

today to vote.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     We can't vote, but we --

          MR. ALLEN:     It's okay to put the motion on the floor.

          MS. SIMON:     Okay.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Okay.   So, hopefully, we'll have a

quorum next time.   We could have further discussion of the

motion, even though we can't vote on it today.     Does anyone want

to discuss it further?

          MR. LANDIS:    I just would like to see -- I mean, we

have this wage schedule here for the hopper dredge, and you said
                                                                       29


in the past DOI proposal, it has the floating plant wage

schedule as well?

            MR. ALLEN:    Correct.

            MR. LANDIS:   Okay.   And they are the two wage

schedules we're talking about.       So anything else really isn't

relevant.   So I'll look at that.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    We have a lot of information in

our record by now, between the August meeting, the Captain's

submission, the DOI original proposal, the supplementary

information from DOI, et cetera.      It's quite a bit.   So I think

if people, between now and the next meeting, have an opportunity

to review all that information, it may be enough for us to come

to a decision.     If we still have questions, we can try to get

answers to them.

            MR. ALLEN:    Captain Hanrahan gave an excellent review

of the history of how the vessel has been operated and problems

with recruiting and retaining people on the vessel, and that's

something that's really good for everybody to go back and look

at again.

            MR. LANDIS:   That was from the August meeting?

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Yes.   If you look at the

transcript and also the agenda documents.
                                                                   30


          Any other discussion?

          MR. HOWARD:   Excuse me.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Yes, sir.

          MR. HOWARD:   There was a question regarding Management

being engaged in recruitment in the region.   Just so that we

have clarification, there is a superintendent, and then there is

a supervisor, and then under that, is Captain Hanrahan.

Recruiting challenges are already addressed in our initial

proposal, but are you asking for additional information to get a

clearer picture how things are situated in that region?

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Do people feel the need for more

data on that point?

          MR. ALLEN:    I think any additional information is

helpful, if it's something we haven't already had access to in

the DOI documents.

          MR. HOWARD:   Because I just want to make sure that

there is a clear picture across the board, an understanding that

if we're talking about various types of work that is being

performed in comparison, and with our proposal saying we found

it to be comparable to resolve the issue.   Then we will provide

that information, just so you have a true understanding of how

things would be addressed as far as the salary within that
                                                                     31


region.

          So if that is the case, we will provide that

information to you.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    We certainly would welcome any

more data you would like to provide us with.     It is our hope to

actually reach some decision in our December meeting.     So I

don't know if that allows you enough time or not.

          MR. HOWARD:    We will convene with our folks today.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    All right.    Well, is there any

other new business that people want to bring up?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    If not, it would be in order for

us to adjourn.   I guess I should say before we adjourn, our not-

to-be-missed holiday party will be at the December meeting, and

I certainly want to wish everybody a Happy Thanksgiving.

          If there is no further business and no objection, we

can adjourn.   Any objection to adjourning?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   We are adjourned, and in 10

minutes, we will convene in the Small Pendleton Room for the

working group meeting.
