                                                                 1

              FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

                             594th FPRAC

              SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding

                        Thursday, May 15, 2014

                               Room 5526
                    Office of Personnel Management
                        Washington, D.C. 20415


ATTENDANCE:

Members/Alternates:

    Management Members:
    Mark Allen, OPM
    Tracy Schulberg, Navy
    Gary Buck, Army

    Labor Members:
    Bill Fenaughty, MTD
    Jacque Simon, AFGE
    Adair Gregory, NAGE

Staff Specialists and Visitors:
     Jeanne Jacobson, Designated Federal Officer, OPM
     Madeline Gonzalez, OPM
     Luis Lynch, AF
     David Pedersen, Navy

Recording Secretaries:
     Mike Eicher, OPM
     Terri Wallace, OPM

   [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]
                                                               2

                          C O N T E N T S
                                                        Page
I.     Opening/Announcements
       • Introductions.....................................3
       • Announcements.....................................5
         - Special Wage Schedules for Nonappropriated Fund
           Automotive Mechanics—Final Rule Issued
           April 24, 2014, 594-OC-1
         - 2014 Review of Labor Membership on the Federal
           Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee, 594-OC-2

II.    Review of the Minutes of 593rd Meeting..............6

III.   Old Business........................................7
       a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2
          - 2013 Update to Review of Lee County, Virginia,
            586-MGT-1
       b. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
          - 2013 Update to Definition of South Bend-
            Mishawaka, IN-MI Metropolitan Statistical
            Area, 586-MGT-2
       c. Letter from the American Federation of Government
          Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
          review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
          from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
          the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1
       d. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1
          - 2013 Update to Definition of
            Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC Metropolitan
            Statistical Area, 588-MGT-1
       e. Review of the Augusta and Portland, ME Federal
          Wage System Wage Areas, 578-MGT-1
          - Alternate Analysis of the Portland, ME Federal
            Wage System Wage Area, 580-MGT-1
          - 2014 Update to Alternate Analysis of the
            Portland, ME Federal Wage System Wage
            Area, 593-MGT-2
                                                              3



                   C O N T E N T S (continued)
                                                       Page


IV.   New Business........................................7
      a. Appropriated Fund Wage Areas Abolished 1969-1976,
         594-OPM-1
      b. Employment Data for the Portland, ME Wage Area,
         594-OPM-2
      c. Hypothetical Payline Estimates for Augusta, ME
         and Portsmouth, NH Using Raw Data from Outside
         Counties, 594-DOD-1
      d. Definitions of Metropolitan Statistical Areas,
         594-MGT-1
                                                                          4


                            P R O C E E D I N G

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Good morning, everyone.    Welcome

to this, our 594th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate

Advisory Committee.      My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chair of the

Committee.

            We are a little bit short on attendance today with our

members, but maybe we will get more people staggering in.            We

will see.    Meanwhile, I think we should get started.       As we

usually do, let's go around the room and introduce ourselves.

Let's start with you today, Bill, please.

            MR. FENAUGHTY:    Bill Fenaughty with Metal Trades.

            MS. SIMON:   Jacque Simon, American Federation of

Government Employees.

            MR. GREGORY:    Adair Gregory, National Association of

Government Employees.

            MR. ALLEN:   Mark Allen with OPM.

            MS. SCHULBERG:    Tracy Schulberg, Navy.

            MR. BUCK:    Gary Buck, Army.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Thank you.

            And there is no one on the phone; is that correct?

            MS. GONZALEZ:    Correct.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Jeanne, would you go ahead,
                                                                    5


please.

           MS. JACOBSON:   Jeanne Jacobson, OPM, Designated

Federal Officer.

           MR. LYNCH:    Luis Lynch, Air Force.

           MR. PEDERSEN:   David Pedersen, Navy.

           MR. EICHER:    Mike Eicher, OPM.

           MS. GONZALEZ:   Madeline Gonzalez, OPM.

           MS. WALLACE:    Terri Wallace, OPM.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay, thank you.

           Well, let's start with a couple of announcements.    I

circulated to everyone the final regulation regarding the

Special Wage Schedule for Nonappropriated Fund Auto Mechanics.

People may remember we dealt with that issue previously at

FPRAC.    There was no consensus, but we voted on it a couple

years back.   It is finally being implemented, and I thought

people might want to be aware that the regulation was issued.

           One of the provisions is an every-3-year review by

FPRAC to see how people's wages are going to be affected by the

change.

           Any questions about that?

           MR. ALLEN:    I should add, Mr. Chairman, this

regulation has an effective date of April the 24th, but it is
                                                                     6


not actually applicable until the first pay period after June

23rd.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Anything else on that one?

           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   The other announcement pertains to

the every-2-year review of Labor membership on FPRAC, which

statute requires, and you will see there is no change indicated

based on OPM staff analysis of union representation data for FWS

employees.   Any questions about that?

           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   That brings up the minutes

of our last meeting.   Are there any other corrections or changes

beyond those we have heard from you about already?

           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   If not, does anyone disagree with

the idea that we should adopt the transcript of our last

meeting?

           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Hearing no disagreement, the

transcript is adopted.

           That brings up Old Business.   Anybody have anything on

items (a) through (d) that they want to bring up this morning?
                                                                   7


         [No audible response.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    If not, we can move on to (e),

which is also part of (a) through (c) under New Business, all of

which we will discuss together.   If people are agreeable, I

would like us to skip down to item (d) on New Business and see

if perhaps we can dispose of that one.

         Mark, would you please summarize that one for us?

         MR. ALLEN:   Sure.   As everybody knows, we have new

Metropolitan Statistical Area definitions that are issued by the

Office of Management and Budget, and we are starting to take a

look at how those new MSA definitions impact Federal Wage System

wage areas, being that regulations indicate it is only

permissible for MSAs to be split by FWS wage area boundaries in

unusual circumstances.

         We have identified three Metropolitan Statistical

Areas that are currently split by wage areas, and based on the

analyses we have done, we are recommending that Culpepper and

Rappahannock Counties, Virginia, be redefined from the

Hagerstown-Martinsburg-Chambersburg, Maryland, area of

application to the Washington, D.C., area of application;

Fillmore County, Minnesota, be redefined from the Southwestern

Wisconsin area of application to the Minneapolis-St. Paul,
                                                                    8


Minnesota, area of application; and Chester County, South

Carolina, be redefined from the Columbia, South Carolina, area

of application to the Charlotte, North Carolina, area of

application.

          Of particular interest to this Committee should be

Culpepper and Rappahannock Counties.    There are seven employees

with the Department of Veterans Affairs in Culpepper County and

one employee with the Department of the Interior in Rappahannock

County.   The other two counties that are affected and covered in

this proposal have no Federal Wage System employees in them.

          I will also draw your attention to the fact that at

least some of the employees in Culpeper and Rappahannock

Counties would experience a reduction in pay by being placed

into the Washington, D.C., wage area because the wage schedule

for Hagerstown is higher at the lower grade levels than the

Washington, D.C., wage area schedule.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Any questions or discussion?

          [No audible response.]

          MR. ALLEN:   There is a map immediately following the

analysis of Culpepper and Rappahannock Counties where you can

see the magenta-colored proposed Washington, D.C., Metropolitan

Statistical Area. Rappahannock and Culpepper Counties are shown
                                                                     9


in the magenta color on the outside of the blue wage area

boundary line. It is a pretty sizeable Metropolitan Statistical

Area and there are two counties that are not included in that

Washington, D.C., wage area, currently.     That is really what is

driving this proposal for this Metropolitan Statistical Area.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   These are newly defined to the

Washington Metropolitan Statistical Area?

           MR. ALLEN:   That is correct, yes.

           MS. SIMON:   Do you know if those counties are coming

into the Washington-Baltimore GS locality pay area?

           MR. ALLEN:   I believe they should already be in it.

           MS. SIMON:   As a result of this?

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I actually looked this up.   I was

curious.   Culpepper County already is.

           MS. SIMON:   Oh, okay.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   It was in 2003, for some reason,

it met some other criterion.    It wasn't yet part of the

Metropolitan Statistical Area, but it met some other locality

pay area criterion.

           Rappahannock County was just recommended in December

for addition to the Washington-Baltimore locality pay area,

based on some other criteria.
                                                                   10


         MS. SIMON:   Probably the commuting data.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Yes, probably commuting.    I

presume that recommendation was not adopted.    It was part of the

report of the Federal Salary Council.

         MS. SIMON:   Okay.

         MR. ALLEN:   That sounds right, yes.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   But I guess, presumably, it now

would be at some point, due to the change in definition of the

Washington MSA.

         MS. SIMON:   Okay.

         MR. FENAUGHTY:   I want to be sure I understand.     So

the seven employees that are affected --

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Yes.

         MR. FENAUGHTY:   -- they would experience a loss in

wages because they are low-graded employees.    Is that what you

said?

         MR. ALLEN:   We would have to look grade by grade to

see the difference in the wage schedules for the employees.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   If I read it correctly, more

employees’ rates would actually go up.   One or two go down, but

more go up.

         MS. SIMON:   More wages go up, but how about for the
                                                                     11


positions that are currently held?

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Yes.    That's what I was referring

to.

         MS. SIMON:   Okay.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    You might want to see if I got

that right, as I was eye-balling it.

         MR. ALLEN:   If we look at Wage Grade 6 for Culpepper

County where there are four employees, if we look at the Step 2

rate for Washington, D.C., that is $20.51 an hour.     For

Hagerstown, it is $20.13 an hour.     It's not saying that all the

employees are Step 2, just to give you a kind of perspective on

that.

         MS. SIMON:   They are mostly Grade 6?

         MR. ALLEN:   Four employees at Grade 6.     There are two

employees at Wage Grade 5.    For Wage Grade 5, the Washington,

D.C., rate is $18.77 at Step 2, and it is currently $19.38 at

Step 2 for the Hagerstown wage area.

         There is also an employee at WS-5, which is $27.01 in

the Washington, D.C., area, $26.34 in the Hagerstown area.

         MS. SIMON:   Okay.

         MR. ALLEN:   The Chairman is right.     Most employees

will receive an increase in pay.      Those who would be placed on a
                                                                  12


lower wage schedule, if they were not currently at Step 5, could

be bumped up, possibly.   If that could not happen, then they

would be covered by pay retention provisions.

         MS. SIMON:   Okay.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Any more discussion of this one?

         [No audible response.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Is there a consensus to adopt it?

         [No audible response.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   So hearing that there is a

consensus, we have adopted 594-MGT-1.   Thank you.

         So this brings up the abolition of the Portland,

Maine, wage area.   The abolition of the wage area is necessary

because employment has dwindled, and the closure of the host

installation in 2011 has left the wage area without an activity

having the capability to conduct local wage surveys. We have a

Management proposal on the table as to how the counties of the

wage area should be reassigned.   Labor has indicated its dissent

from that proposal and is formulating a counterproposal.

         We have some new documents that were requested at our

previous meeting.

         We are shy of a quorum and, therefore, can't vote

today, but I see no reason why we can't begin discussion on this
                                                                   13


issue and perhaps move forward on it.

          Would it be helpful to have a summary of the three new

documents for starters?

          MS. SIMON:   Yes.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Mark, you're on.

          MR. ALLEN:   All right.   In document 594-OPM-1, we were

asked to take a look back at how wage areas had been abolished

back around the time the Federal Wage System was established and

prior to that under the coordinated Federal Wage System. As you

can see from this document, there's really a mixed-bag approach.

There is no one right way to redefine the counties of an

abolished wage area.

          Just to give you some examples, the Montgomery,

Alabama, wage area was abolished in 1971, and the entire wage

area was redefined to the Columbus, Georgia, area of

application.   A couple of years prior to that, in 1969, the

counties of the Fort Smith, Arkansas, wage area were split

between two wage areas.   In 1971, the Colorado Springs wage area

was abolished due to having inadequate wage data, so two survey

areas were combined.   There is no definite pattern to these

things.   It has always been up to the Committee’s discretion to

say what best fits the situation for each wage area or whether a
                                                                    14


survey area should be expanded or not when a wage area is

combined with another one.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      I have a question.   One thing I

noted is that sometimes under the rationale column, when

distance was mentioned, it referred to distance to survey area.

Has there been any change in how we view distance in FPRAC?

         MR. ALLEN:   Usually, what we do in our analyses'

packages is we measure distances between main city or cities in

a survey area as well as measuring between host installations,

because the host installation tends to have the majority of the

Federal Wage System employees in most of the wage areas.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    So when this says proximity to

survey area, it is really shorthand for saying proximity to a

major city in the survey area?

         MR. ALLEN:   Yes.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Is that way of measuring distance

still used by OPM staff?

         MS. GONZALEZ:     In the past, the analysis reviews were

a lot shorter.   The explanations were shorter than what we’re

used to today.   I agree with Mark that distance was measured to

major cities in survey areas because you have to measure to a

point, not to a whole area.   There's no mention in the old
                                                                   15


reviews of measuring to host installations, at least on the

appropriated side.    Today OPM staff measures to the major city

or cities and to the host installation.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Right.   And measuring to a major

city can give you a different result than looking at distance to

an installation.

         MR. ALLEN:    The real detailed analyses that FPRAC

started to do were really around 1993, 1994, in which the

Committee decided it was appropriate to measure from counties in

areas of application to cities in survey areas or host

installations.   There's not actually anything in regulation, at

least with the Appropriated Fund wage areas that says the

distance has to be measured from a county to a host

installation, but it's something the Committee decided to look

at.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Do you want to go through the

other new documents, too, then?

         MR. ALLEN:    Okay.   We were also asked to provide a

kind of an addendum to the review of the Portland wage area just

to add the number of employees who are still working in the

counties of the wage area.

         Principally, we are looking at Cumberland and
                                                                  16


Sagadahoc Counties.    There were around 37 employees in these two

counties of the Portland wage area that we did not identify in

the previous analysis that we presented to the Committee.

         Currently, there are approximately 80 employees in the

Portland wage area that is proposed to be abolished.

         One other thing I probably should point out here is –

Madeline, please correct me if I am incorrect about this, but is

the largest employer in the Portland wage area that we are

interested in located in Sagadahoc County?

         MS. GONZALEZ:    Correct.

         MR. ALLEN:    Okay.   And that county has no Federal Wage

System employees in it.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    That's the employer that is used

for the Monroney Amendment purposes in Portsmouth.

         MR. ALLEN:    That's correct.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any questions about that document?

         [No audible response.]

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    We've got one more document to

discuss, I think, as a new business item.

         MR. ALLEN:    The next document is actually a DoD

document, 594-DOD-1.    Management was asked to come up with a

hypothetical payline, if the data for the Portland survey
                                                                    17


counties, as contained in the Management proposal, would be

added to the Portsmouth, New Hampshire, wage area data.     This

document is really something that I would need DoD staff to

explain in detail to show what all the implications are.    I

understand some of them, but I think they are in a better

position to --

          MS. SIMON:   But this is basically adding some of the

counties that were in Portland to the survey area of both

Augusta and Portsmouth.

          MR. ALLEN:   Yeah, that's right.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Yes.

          MS. SIMON:   Okay.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    And these are -- I am pretty sure

these are unrestricted paylines.

          MS. SIMON:   Right.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Not what would be the actual pay

rates--

          MS. SIMON:   Right, I understand.

          MR. ALLEN:      These pay lines are, again, hypothetical.

If a survey were done, it could be something markedly different

from what is hypothesized here, but this gives an idea of the

impact using the data that DoD has currently.
                                                                    18


         MS. SIMON:   Okay.    And the Management proposal remains

to put some of the counties into Augusta and some into

Portsmouth?

         MR. ALLEN:   Yes.

         MS. SIMON:   And the Labor counter, which is to put the

whole thing into Portsmouth, has that ever been voted on?

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     No.   We haven't had any votes on

this at all.

         MS. SIMON:   Okay.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     The part of the Labor proposal

that hasn't been specified is what to do about survey counties;

in other words, is the Labor proposal to retain some or all of

the current Portland survey counties, as survey counties after

the Portland wage area is abolished,, or not?

         MS. SIMON:   Do we ordinarily vote on survey counties?

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     We just need to know what it is

that we are being asked to adopt.

         MS. SIMON:   Okay.

         MR. ALLEN:   Yes.    The current Management proposal

would add counties to the survey areas, and the information

contained in 594-DOD-1 is important information to kind of

provide a long-range view to see what the impact would be on
                                                                    19


employees in the Portsmouth or Augusta wage areas.

           Now, having said that, this year, Federal Wage System

wage schedules are limited to a 1 percent increase.    They can't

go down.   They can only go up by 1 percent, and there is a

provision in the President's Budget Proposal for FY 2015 that

would do the same thing.

           MS. SIMON:   Oh, believe me, we know.

           MR. ALLEN:   Okay.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   So even in the case of a

consolidation of a wage area that moves everybody up to a

different payline, they wouldn't move up to it?    Is that what

you're saying?

           MS. SIMON:   They can still move up to the new payline.

It's just that whatever the payline is would be adjusted 1

percent.

           MR. ALLEN:   Yes.

           What would happen is the Portsmouth wage schedule

would only be adjusted by 1 percent in FY 2015.    So regardless

of the data being imported to the Portsmouth wage area, it would

have no effect on the actual payable rates for employees,

assuming there is the same 1 percent pay increase provision for

Federal Wage System employees.
                                                                       20


           MS. SIMON:   But can't it alter the slope of the

payline?

           MR. ALLEN:   It could, yes.     It most likely would, but

it wouldn't have any effect on the wage schedule rates.       It

would only have an effect on the unrestricted payline rates.

           MS. SIMON:   Okay.

           MR. FENAUGHTY:     Pretty much what we are going through

now.

           MR. ALLEN:   Yes.

           MS. SIMON:   Yes.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Well, okay.   Let me make sure I

understand this.    Let's say you take one of the abolished

Portland counties, and combine it with the Portsmouth wage area,

and let's say that's a step down in pay for some of those

people.    Does that mean those people don't even get the 1

percent pay adjustment?

           MR. ALLEN:   No.     The way the language is written in

the appropriations law, there must be a 1 percent adjustment to

the wage schedule.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      But they would be moved to a new

schedule, right?

           MR. ALLEN:   They would be moved to a new wage
                                                                     21


schedule.    It's a separate action for moving employees to a

schedule and then after that adjusting the wage schedule through

the annual wage survey process.

            So employees I think in most cases for the Portland

wage area, if they would go into the Portsmouth wage area, they

would receive an increase in pay by being placed on the

Portsmouth wage schedule on a grade-for-grade, step-for-step

basis.   So they would see their pay go up.

            Then in subsequent wage surveys, the wage schedule

would only be adjusted by 1 percent.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   Let's look at 594-DOD-1.   I

am looking at two columns.       One says Portsmouth, and one says

Portland.    I understand these are the unrestricted paylines, not

the actual paylines.

            So, for example, somebody who is in Grade 1, in

Portland they are getting $13.20, in Portsmouth they are getting

$12.16, right?   Suppose all of a sudden they are moved from

Portland to Portsmouth.     Let's say you adjust Portsmouth by 1

percent.

            MR. ALLEN:   These are the wage survey payline results.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Yes.

            MR. ALLEN:   These are not actual payable rates.
                                                                     22


         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Right.

         MR. ALLEN:      And there can be a divergence between the

wage schedule rates and the payline rates by as much as 30

percent in either direction.

         MS. SIMON:    But, Mark, I think the question that is

being asked is what happens if the payable rate in Portsmouth or

Augusta is lower than the payable rate was in Portland.

         MR. ALLEN:    That would be the case for employees who

would be moving from Coos County, from the Portland wage area to

the Augusta wage area.    The rates on those wage schedules are

lower on the Augusta wage schedule than they are on the Portland

wage schedule.   So employees in Coos County would be placed on a

lower wage schedule.

         MS. SIMON:    Right.

         MR. ALLEN:    And regardless of the wage survey payline

results, next fiscal year, if the expected 1 percent increase

goes into effect, employees would receive a 1 percent

adjustment, regardless of which wage schedule they are on.

         MR. FENAUGHTY:     But they would be in a lower --

         MS. SIMON:    They wouldn't be in the safe pay?

         MR. ALLEN:    If somebody is on pay retention, they

would get half of the increase.
                                                                      23


            MS. SIMON:   Yes.    So they wouldn't automatically get

the 1 percent.

            MR. ALLEN:   That's true.

            MS. SIMON:   Okay.

            Well, that's the answer to your question:    No.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    It seems to me -- and I guess we

would have to look at the actual wage schedules, which are

different from these unrestricted paylines, but it seems to me

that in either direction, people could be going down in pay. I'd

have to look at the actual wage schedules which we have in one

of our other documents.

            MR. ALLEN:   That is really the thing to look at.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    So it does seem to me that if

Labor wants to have a counterproposal, it does need to include

as part of it what happens to the current Portland survey

counties.

            MS. SIMON:   Right, I get it.    I understand what you

are saying.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Without that, it is not quite a

proposal.

            Is there any more discussion of this today?    We do

have to resolve it.      We can't have a vote today, but we could
                                                                    24


talk more about it if we want to come closer to getting a

resolution on it today.

           MS. SIMON:   Well, we could draft the Labor proposal to

include recognition of the necessity to add the former Portland

survey areas to the Portsmouth survey areas, but we are not

really -- are we considering any proposals today?

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Well, actually, if we had a fully

defined Labor proposal and we have already the Management

proposal and people had that going into the next meeting, that

does move us a little bit closer to a decision.

           MR. ALLEN:   What I have heard from the Labor members

is that they are interested in moving the counties of the

Portland wage area as a whole into the Portsmouth wage areas.

Then the remaining question would be whether adding counties

proposed for inclusion in the survey area that are in the

Management proposal should continue to be included in the Labor

proposal, to add those to the Portsmouth survey area.    Am I

correct?

           MS. SIMON:   Yes.

           MR. ALLEN:   Okay.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Well, there are three survey

counties in Portland currently.
                                                                     25


         MS. SIMON:   Okay.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Under the Management proposal, all

three would remain survey counties.     Two of them would go to

Portsmouth.   One would go to Augusta.

         MS. SIMON:   Right.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     So for the Labor proposal, it

sounds like you are thinking that you want to retain some or all

of those counties?

         MR. ALLEN:   It could be two of the three rather than--

         MS. SIMON:   Rather than all three, yes.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     One question in my mind is -- DoD

tells us that they get the data for Portsmouth under Monroney

from Sagadahoc County, which is a survey county in Portland. So

if Sagadahoc would no longer be a survey county, where would

they get that Monroney data from?      I don't know the answer to

that, but I don't know if anyone knows.     I don't know if there's

something in the law that would tell them where to look next.

         MR. ALLEN:   Yes.     It is the next closest one, which I

believe would be down in the Tidewater Area in Virginia.

         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Wow!    That's not too close.

         MS. SIMON:   No.

         MR. ALLEN:   There's not a really big ship-building
                                                                     26


industry on the Atlantic Coast anymore.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Nothing in Rhode Island or

Connecticut?

           MS. SIMON:   Rhode Island has nothing anymore?

           MR. ALLEN:   Not much.

           MS. SIMON:   Pennsylvania has nothing?     Philadelphia

nothing?   I guess not.

           MR. ALLEN:   I think once you get past Norfolk and

Virginia Beach, you have to go all the way around to the Gulf

Coast to see the major shipyards that are left there.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   So that might be thought of as an

argument for retaining Sagadahoc, if I am pronouncing it

correctly, as a survey county.

           MS. SIMON:   As a survey county, yes.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    So do you want to do a little more

work offline finalizing Labor's proposal?

           MS. SIMON:   I guess we would have to write it down.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Hopefully, we will get

everybody here next time.

           MS. SIMON:   Okay.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I don't know what I have to do to

make it happen, but we'll see.      Prizes?   Maybe a door prize?
                                                                     27


Raffle?

          [Laughter.]

          MS. SIMON:    It would be nice if we had snacks, but I

guess that's not in the budget.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Snacks.   I'm sorry.   I've been

informed that's against the law.

          MR. ALLEN:    I have one banana.   I could bring a bunch.

          [Laughter.]

          MS. SIMON:    Free coffee.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    We could voluntarily contribute to

a refreshment fund, but that gets complicated, doesn't it?

          MS. SIMON:    Yeah.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    All right.   Well, anyway, okay.     I

guess this is as far as we can take it today.     Anything else on

this?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any other New Business?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    We do have a working group meeting

shortly after we adjourn here.

          Is there any objection to our adjourning?

          [No audible response.]
                                                             28


         CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Hearing no objection, we are

adjourned.

         See you all next month.   Thank you.
