                                                                 1

              FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

                             587th FPRAC

               SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding

                     Thursday, September 19, 2013

                               Room 5526
                    Office of Personnel Management
                        Washington, D.C. 20415

ATTENDANCE:

Members/Alternates:

     Management Members:
     Mark Allen, OPM
     Steven Rumble, DoD
     Bob Kerr, Air Force
     Pamela Sokol, Army (via telephone)

     Labor Members:
     Dennis Phelps, MTD
     Jacque Simon, AFGE
     Robert Shore, NAGE
     Steven Landis, ACT

Staff Specialists and Visitors:
     Brenda Roberts, Designated Federal Officer, OPM
     Madeline Gonzalez, OPM
     Jennifer Dorsey, OPM
     Chris Hammond, OPM
     Jim Brady, DoD
     Becky Chaves, DoD
     Karl Fendt, DoD
     Deborah Blake, DOI
     Kermit Howard, DOI
     Emily Parkhurst, DOI


Recording Secretaries:    Mike Eicher and Terri Wallace

   [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]
                                                               2

                          C O N T E N T S

                                                        Page
I.     Opening/Announcements
       • Introductions.....................................4
       • Announcements.....................................5

II.    Review of the Minutes of the 586th Meeting..........7

III.   Old Business........................................7
       a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2
          - 2013 Update to Review Lee County, Virginia,
            586-MGT-1
       b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns
          - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on
            Survey Issues Work Group, 560-OC-1
       c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal
          Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1
       d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
       e. Letter from the American Federation of Government
          Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
          review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
          from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
          the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1
       f. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1
       g. Proposal for FPRAC review of the Federal Wage
          System Appropriated Fund and Nonappropriated
          Fund Operating Manuals, 575-AFGE-1
       h. Suggestion for a research paper on the history
          of the Federal Government's prevailing rate
          system
       i. Review of the Augusta and Portland, ME Federal
          Wage System Wage Areas, 578-MGT-1
          - Alternate Analysis of the Portland, ME Federal
            Wage System Wage Area, 580-MGT-1
       j. Project to update wage area maps
       k. Department of the Interior's Special Vessel
          Schedules, 585-OPM-1
                                                                     3


                           P R O C E E D I N G

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Thank you, and good morning,

everyone.   Welcome to this, our 587th meeting of the Federal

Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee.

            Before we get started, I would like to ask that we

observe a moment of silence in memory of the victims of the

tragic shooting at the Washington Navy Yard earlier this week.

            [Moment of silence.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   Thank you, everyone.

            As we usually do, why don't we go around the room and

introduce ourselves?      Today, I'll start with you, Mark.

            MR. ALLEN:    Mark Allen with OPM.

            MR. RUMBLE:    Steve Rumble, Department of Defense.

            MR. KERR:    Bob Kerr, Air Force.



            MS. SOKOL:    Pamela Sokol, Army.

            MR. PHELPS:    Dennis Phelps, Metal Trades Department.

            MS. SIMON:    Jacque Simon, AFGE.

            MR. SHORE:    Robert Shore, NAGE.

            MR. LANDIS:    Steven Landis, ACT.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I forgot to introduce myself.

Sheldon Friedman, Chair of FPRAC.
                                                                       4


            Folks around the edge of the room, please introduce

yourselves.

            MS. GONZALEZ:    Madeline Gonzalez with OPM.

            MS. ROBERTS:    Brenda Roberts, OPM and the Designated

Federal Officer.

            MR. BRADY:    Jim Brady, DoD.

            MS. CHAVES:    Becky Chaves, DoD.

            MR. HAMMOND:    Chris Hammond, OPM.

            MR. EICHER:    Mike Eicher, OPM.

            MS. WALLACE:    Terri Wallace, OPM.

            MS. DORSEY:    Jennifer Dorsey, OPM.

            MR. HOWARD:    Kermit Howard, Department of the

Interior.

            MS. BLAKE:    Deborah Blake, Department of the Interior,

National Park Service.

            MS. PARKHURST:    Emily Parkhurst, Department of the

Interior, Office of Solicitor.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Thank you.    Just a quick

announcement or two.      Our FPRAC colleague, Bill Fenaughty, has

had some heart surgery, and I took the liberty of getting him a

get-well card, which I’ll pass around.      I understand he's

recovering and hopefully will be back before too long.
                                                                    5


            I'll start it with you, and if people could get it

back to me, I'd appreciate it.

            Another announcement.   Some bad news and some good

news.   We were asked a while back by one of the members of the

Committee to update our book of maps that show the FWS wage

areas, and this is an excellent idea, so we are proceeding to do

that.   The bad news is that the old software that was being used

for mapping, it's so out of date, it's no longer being provided

technical support.    The good news is we are getting some new

software.

            Do we have it in hand, or are we still awaiting it?

Anybody know the answer?

            MS. GONZALEZ:   We are waiting for the Help Desk to

install it.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   So what I would like to ask the

members of the Committee is if they have suggestions about

changes in format or changes in information that the maps would

convey, without any guarantee we can address those suggestions,

please let us know.   It would be very helpful to have those

ideas, and a good way to submit those would be just to take an

old map and mark it up and say do it this way or do it that way.

We can get them in to Madeline.
                                                                       6


           MS. GONZALEZ:   As soon as possible will be helpful.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    We will send an e-mail as a

reminder for people to do that, but please convey your thoughts.

           MR. ALLEN:   I would just make an observation.       With

the maps we have currently been using and using in the past,

they have a lot of information on them, and so for a layperson,

somebody not associated with the Committee, it would be

difficult for somebody to understand just looking at the map

what we're trying to convey on it.       It's got wage area

boundaries, survey areas, and areas of application.      This is

just something to think about.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.    So we would like to

announce to the Committee that our colleague Mark has a new job

title.   Tell us what it is, Mark.

           MR. ALLEN:   Acting Deputy Associate Director for Pay

and Leave in Employee Services, and I will be Acting through the

end of this calendar year.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.    Any other announcements

people have?

           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    If not, we will move on to review

of the transcript of our last meeting.      Does anybody have
                                                                      7


corrections or changes beyond those that we have already heard

from you about?

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I don't hear anybody coming

forward on that.    So unless there's some objection, I assume the

transcript is adopted.     Hearing no objection, it's adopted.

Thank you.

             That brings up Old Business, and we have quite a bit

of it on our plate, and one of the things we talked about doing

is wanting to work our way through that.

             I want to start with the last item, which is the issue

of the Department of the Interior's Special Vessel Schedule, and

ask Mark if there's any update or anything new to report on that

since our last meeting.

             MR. ALLEN:   I asked staff to take a look at what some

of the options might be.     There are a number of options that

were apparently considered way back in 1969 when the Federal

Wage System was being set up as an administrative pay system.

Some of those were rejected, so what we've ended up with is a

set-aside schedule, and unfortunately, none of the options

really seem to be ideal.     So I think we are placed in a position

to figure out what the best option of five or so is.     I will
                                                                   8


just go through what I think the options are, and I am perfectly

open to hearing what any of the other members of the Committee

think other options are.   I think what I have is fairly

comprehensive.

            Option number one, in no particular order.

            We don't have a Management proposal on this at the

moment, so this is just laying out what I think the options are.

            The default under the Federal Wage System is to pay

FWS employees from the regular wage schedule where they work.

The crew of the vessel Ranger III are kind of by default paid

rates from the regular wage schedule for the Northwestern

Michigan wage area.    So option one would be don't change

anything.   That presents an obvious problem because the regular

rates don't anymore provide for adequate recruitment and

retention of crewmembers of the vessel.   And Captain Hanrahan

came, and he gave pretty convincing evidence that's true.

            The second option would be to continue the set-aside

schedule pay practice using rates from the Northwestern Michigan

wage schedule, but add steps to the rates that the crew are

currently paid.   I think they are currently paid from a single

rate, Step 3, and having five steps would provide room for

growth for the crew.   They would still be in alignment with
                                                                     9


prevailing rates in their local wage area under the regular

Federal Wage System, but they would be more equalized with how

the rest of the pay system works.

          Option three -- and this is what the Department of the

Interior sent over to us in their memorandum -- is to continue

the pay practices of the set-aside pay schedule, but base the

rates of pay on the Detroit, Michigan, floating plant wage

schedule, using the five-step structure.

          In my mind, that does present some problems because

they are looking to a wage area that's outside of the

Northwestern Michigan wage area.    Captain Hanrahan has indicated

that the rationale behind aligning with the Detroit wage

schedule just to match the rates up to another Department of the

Interior vessel isn't really an apples-to-apples kind of thing

because the two vessels are so dissimilar.

          On the Ranger III, I think we have to recognize it as

a unique operation, and that's one of the things that presents a

difficulty for figuring out what the appropriate pay schedule to

use is.

          Next option.   And I think that Captain Hanrahan had

mentioned this and brought this to our attention.   Continue as a

set-aside, special schedule, but base the rates of pay on the
                                                                    10


hopper dredge wage schedule.   There are currently two wage

schedules for hopper dredge employees.    One is for the Atlantic

and Gulf Coasts, and the other is for the West Coast.

          We did check with the Army Corps of Engineers and

found that there are actually no hopper dredge vessels currently

operating in the Great Lakes, but one thing in the plus column

for using this option is that the rates of pay are based on

maritime rates of pay, so there's a direct correlation between

what the crewmembers of hopper dredge vessels are paid and what

is going on in the maritime sector of the economy.

          Option five, pay the Ranger III crew prevailing

maritime rates under 5 USC 5348, and the big problem with that

one is that the Department of the Interior has already found

that there's inadequate maritime practice in the local area to

match up exactly what the crew of the Ranger III are doing in

terms of operating the type of vessel they have and what other

vessels are operating in the area.

          And that's all I've got for now.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Before I open it to discussion,

what do you plan to do with that, Mark?   Is that going to be

written up and distributed to the Committee?

          MR. ALLEN:   No, I don't have anything written for
                                                                    11


distribution to the Committee.    It's just options that we've

identified, and I just wanted to open it up for the Committee

members to see if they have any other ideas.

          MR. PHELPS:   I just wonder why there would be a

problem with tying it to the prevailing maritime rates.    You

know, when we have Wage Committee meetings and stuff that we

have, if there's not sufficient data for the area being

surveyed, you know, they go outside that area to another area

where they do have that data for, you know, the airplane

mechanics and those types of things.

          MR. ALLEN:    Yeah.   That would be kind of a Monroney

Amendment concept?

          MR. PHELPS:   Right.   Yeah.   Right.

          MR. ALLEN:    Under the Monroney Amendment, there would

be a limited amount of data that would be imported to the local

wage area to establish an adequate -- a more adequate wage

schedule, but it's still relying on the local data for the bulk

of the wage schedule, rates to be calculated.

          In a manner of speaking, the concept of using a hopper

dredge schedule is fairly similar to I think what you're

thinking, which is if there aren't adequate data to set a

schedule that's capable of recruiting and retaining employees,
                                                                     12


then what else is available?      And I think the next best thing,

although it's not ideal, might be the hopper dredge schedule.

             MS. SIMON:    Or the Detroit.

             MR. ALLEN:    The Detroit schedule, Captain Hanrahan has

said is not appropriate because --

             MS. SIMON:    It doesn't have anything from the same

industry?

             MR. ALLEN:    It's actually the regular wage schedule

that applies to the crewmembers of floating plants, and in

Captain Hanrahan's opinion, there is too much of a difference

between his vessel and floating plant vessels.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Well, I think we have some work to

do on this.

             I would like to ask our visitors from the Department

of the Interior, since you are here today, if there is anything

you would like to contribute before we deliberate further on

this issue.

             MR. HOWARD:   We don't have anything to contribute at

this time.    If OPM requires more dialogue with us, we are open

to discussion as far as assisting with coming up with a

solution.    So we're just interested in hearing the options and

working from that standpoint.
                                                                    13


           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I think one question in my mind is

to understand better how DOI determined there wasn't adequate

comparison to be made with the maritime industry.    That option

5, which Mark laid out, which apparently was considered but not

adopted by DOI, it would be helpful to understand it a little

better, at least for me, anyway, the reasoning behind that.

           MR. ALLEN:   There would be a long history behind that

because there was a decision that had to have been made when the

maritime provision was initially put in place that it would not

apply to the crew of the Ranger III.     This goes back decades.

So there would have to be a new determination that there was now

comparable maritime industry in the local area to set pay under

5348, even though there's been decades of practice of not doing

that.   But I would have to leave it to the Department of the

Interior to respond to that question.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Unless there's something

further on this, I do hope we address this matter quickly.

           MS. SIMON:   Is there some reason why that list you

just read can't be distributed to us?    I think it would be

helpful to have.   I thought you were reading from something.

Even if it's not a fully developed Management proposal, a

written list would be helpful to really see.
                                                                     14


          MR. ALLEN:    Sure.   I can just get a brief summary out

to everybody.

          MS. SIMON:    Okay, thank you.

          MR. ALLEN:    Okay.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Is it reasonable for us to set

some sort of timeline on this issue?      I'd certainly like to if

we can, in coming up with a recommendation.     Hopefully, it will

be a consensus recommendation, but it may not be.     We'll have to

see.

          MR. ALLEN:    The information we are looking for is from

the Department of the Interior to respond to the Chairman's

question about how the determination was made that maritime pay

under 5348 could not be applicable to the crew.

          MR. HOWARD:     In that regard, we will have a response

to you.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Other than that, we don't need

additional information?    I didn't mean by asking my question to

delay this.

          MR. ALLEN:    This has been an issue for 43 years, as

Captain Hanrahan pointed out.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Right.

          MR. ALLEN:    And the letter he provided to us or the
                                                                     15


memorandum he provided to us from 1969 lays out pretty much the

same concerns that we're still presented with, finding a way to

deal with what is a unique situation for the Federal Wage

System.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   Well, we will check in next

month and see where we are on this.

            Any other Old Business items people want to discuss?

            [No audible response.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   If not, I have no New Business

items that I'm aware of.    Any New Business items people want to

bring to our attention now?

            [No audible response.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   We do have a Work Group meeting.

We will get that process restarted right after this meeting is

over.

            If there is no objection, we can adjourn.

            MR. SHORE:   Are we setting a schedule for the

Department of the Interior Special Vessel as we follow up on the

issue?

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I would like to, but can we set a

schedule?

            MR. ALLEN:   I would say we should have something more
                                                                      16


for the next meeting on October the 17th.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Assuming we're here in a month.

            MR. ALLEN:    I don't see any reason for the Committee

to delay.

            MR. PHELPS:   Will we be getting something from

Interior soon?   I mean, it could be distributed to us before the

next meeting.    I think that would be helpful, you know, so we

could have a full discussion of it, either at the next meeting

or at the Work Group after the next meeting, if we could get

something in time from Interior to see what we're talking about.

            MR. ALLEN:    We would have to rely on Interior for the

time table on that.

            MS. PARKHURST:   We could have something to OPM by

sometime next week regarding the Chairman's question.

            We would also like to present some more information on

the difference between Ranger III and a dredging ship and the

difference between Ranger III and a floating plant, because I

think that should be a component in the analysis.

            MR. ALLEN:    Okay.

            MR. PHELPS:   And then they could get distributed to

the rest of us when you get it?

            MS. PARKHURST:   Yeah.
                                                                      17


             MR. PHELPS:   Okay.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Does that satisfy --

             MR. SHORE:    Yeah.   To me, it seems like of the five

options, we're really -- I think it makes sense to send all five

out, but we are really only looking at three, four, and five.

One and two didn't seem to be viable options from what anybody

seems to be looking at.       So I think we can narrow it down and

get the additional information.       Then we can move forward to try

to tackle the issue.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.

             Anything else?

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    All right.   Unless there's some

objection, we can adjourn.

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Hearing no objection, we are

adjourned.
