                                                                 1

              FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

                             585th FPRAC

               SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding

                       Thursday, June 20, 2013

                               Room 5526
                    Office of Personnel Management
                        Washington, D.C. 20415


ATTENDANCE:

Members/Alternates:

    Management Members:
    Mark Allen, OPM
    Seth Shulman, DoD
    Bob Kerr, Air Force (via telephone)
    Pamela Sokol, Army

    Labor Members:
    Bill Fenaughty, MTD
    Jacque Simon, AFGE
    Robert Shore, NAGE
    Steven Fisher, ACT

Staff Specialists and Visitors:
     Jeanne Jacobson, Designated Federal Officer, OPM
     Madeline Gonzalez, OPM
     Mike Eicher, OPM
     Jim Brady, DoD
     Bill Becht, DoD
     Darlene Freeman, Navy
     Nicole Lightman, AFGE

Recording Secretary:    Mike Eicher

   [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]
                                                                2

                           C O N T E N T S

                                                        Page
I.     Opening/Announcements
       • Introductions.....................................3
       • Announcements.....................................4
         - Project to update wage area maps

II.    Review of the Minutes of 584th Meeting..............7

III.   Old Business........................................7
       a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2
          - Total Employment in Eastern Tennessee Wage
            Area by County, 566-OPM-1
          - List of FWS Wage Areas with Fewer Than 500
            Employees, 566-OPM-2
          - Review of Criteria for Defining Appropriated
            Fund Wage Areas, 545-OC-1
       b. Discussion of Survey Issues/Concerns
          - FPRAC's Chairman's Memorandum to Members on
            Survey Issues Work Group, 560-OC-1
       c. Special Wage Schedule Pay Practice for Federal
          Wage System Lock and Dam Employees, 562-MGT-1
       d. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
       e. Letter from the American Federation of Government
          Employees, dated June 6, 2011, requesting FPRAC
          review a proposal to redefine Monroe County, PA
          from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA wage area to
          the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1
       f. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1
       g. Proposal for FPRAC review of the Federal Wage
          System Appropriated Fund and Non-Appropriated
          Fund Operating Manuals, 575-AFGE-1
       h. Suggestion for a research paper on the history
          of the Federal Government's prevailing rate
          system
       i. Review of the Augusta and Portland, ME Federal
          Wage System Wage Areas, 578-MGT-1
          - Alternate Analysis of the Portland, ME Federal
            Wage System Wage Area, 580-MGT-1

IV.    New Business.........................................8
       a. Department of Interior Special Vehicle
          Schedules, 585-OPM-1
                                                                3


                       P R O C E E D I N G

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Well, good morning, everyone,

and welcome to this, our 585th meeting of the Federal

Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee.     My name is Sheldon

Friedman, Chair of the Committee, and why don't we go

around and introduce ourselves?      Let's start with you

today, Bill.

          MR. FENAUGHTY: Bill Fenaughty from MTD and NFFE.

          MR. FISHER:    Steve Fisher with ACT.

          MR. ALLEN:    Mark Allen with OPM.

          MS. SOKOL:    Pamela Sokol, Department of the Army.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    And if others in the room

could introduce themselves?

          MS. JACOBSON:    I'm Jeanne Jacobson, OPM

Designated Federal Officer.

          MS. FREEMAN:    Darlene Freeman, Department of the

Navy.

          MR. EICHER:    Mike Eicher, OPM.

          MS. GONZALEZ:    Madeline Gonzalez with OPM.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    And we don't have anyone on

the phone, do we?

          MR. KERR:    Yes, we do.    This is Bob Kerr, Air
                                                                 4


Force.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Oh.   Thank you.

            Okay.   Anyone else on the phone?

            [No audible response.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   No.   All right.

            We might have a few more folks come in.     I hope

we do, but meanwhile, one announcement.     It's been

requested by one of the Committee members that it's time to

update our book of Wage Area Maps, so that project, it will

take a while, but it's something we're going to be

undertaking.

            Anything you want to say about that, Mark?

            MR. ALLEN:   The Wage Area Maps that we previously

had, and that was a binder, are mostly accurate in that

very few wage area boundaries have changed, but --

            [Discussion off the record.]

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   If our newly arrived members

could introduce themselves, that would be good for our

recorder.



            MR. SHULMAN:   Hi.   Seth Shulman, Department of

Defense.
                                                                   5


           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   And Jacque, et cetera?

           MS. SIMON:   Jacque Simon, AFGE.

           MS. LIGHTMAN:   Nicole Lightman, AFGE.

           MR. SHORE:   Robert Shore, NAGE.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Thank you all.

           Jim?

           MR. BRADY:   Jim Brady, DoD.

           MR. BECHT:   Bill Becht, DoD.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Thank you.    Okay.   This feels

better now.

           Well, we were just getting through announcements

and talking about the project to update the Wage Area Maps.

           Mark, you were saying about them?

           MR. ALLEN:   I was saying that the maps are mostly

correct in that most wage area boundaries haven't changed,

but we do have changes in metropolitan areas that we need

to include in the maps, so we're going to have to redo most

of them.

           We can still use most of the current maps to

identify wage area boundaries by county and state, but

don't rely on the metropolitan areas.      Many of those have

changed.   Some counties were dropped out.     Some counties
                                                                6


have been added to the metropolitan areas.

           We will get those to you as soon as we can, but

as the Chairman said, it takes a while to do that kind of

thing.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I have a question for members

of the Committee about this.    Is there any additional

information that wouldn't be too burdensome to include that

would be useful on these maps, footnotes, explanations?

Sometimes pieces of counties are somewhat inexplicably

attached to other wage areas.

           Anyway, if you have ideas about ways of making

the maps more useful without a lot of additional work,

please let us know.

           I had a question for Mark:   Is there any reason

not to put the maps on our webpage?

           MR. ALLEN:   That might present a difficulty.

We'd have to look into it.   There are requirements for

people with disabilities.    You can't just have a visual for

a map.   If the map is as complicated as one of our Wage

Area Maps is, you have to explain everything in text, so

that somebody with visual impairment can see.

           We have thought about that in the past, but it's
                                                                7


just something we haven't checked on lately.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I think it would be useful if

we could do it, and then that way also, if it's a matter of

updating one or two maps, it's easy to do without redoing

the whole book.

          MR. ALLEN:     Another thing we could do is provide

the maps on a CD for the members, a USB flash drive or

something that could be updated.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.

          Any other announcements?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    If not, we can move on to the

minutes of our last month's meeting.    Are there any

corrections that people want to bring to our attention,

beyond those that we have already heard from you about?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    If not, is there any

objection to adopting the transcript of our last meeting?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Hearing no objection, the

transcript is adopted.    Thank you.

          We have a lot of Old Business items, (a) through
                                                                 8


(i).   Are there any items people would like to bring up

today for further discussion?

           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.   We can let them sit in

Old Business.

           We do have one New Business item, 585-OPM-1,

Department of Interior Special Vessel Schedules.

           Before I turn to Mark on that one, I should say

by way of background, we were contacted some months ago by

the captain of the vessel in question, the USS Ranger III.

It ferries passengers and freight between Houghton,

Michigan, and Isle Royale National Park.    It's a vessel

operated by the National Park Service, and there's a

longstanding concern that was called to our attention by

the captain of that vessel about the pay of the crew.

That's what's addressed in this particular document.

           I should say that the captain would like to have

the opportunity to come talk to us, to make a presentation.

Since we only got very short notice of the introduction of

this matter, what I would hope is that we not act on it

today, especially since this is a rather detailed package,

and you probably haven't had much chance to study it yet.
                                                               9


But at least you can start to look at it, and if he in fact

does want to come speak to us, we want to give him that

opportunity.   We don't know for sure if he'll want to or be

able to, but we want to give him that opportunity.

          By way of background, I would also note that he

has filed a lawsuit in this matter, and I don't know,

Madeline, if it's a public document.   If it is, perhaps you

can share it with members of the Committee.

          MS. GONZALEZ:   Sure.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   If it isn't a public

document, then we can't share it with you.    I presume it's

public, but I don't really know.

          MS. GONZALEZ:   I presume too, but I will double-

check.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Yeah, please double-check,

and if you can share it, then people will have that as part

of their background information as well.

          Is there anything you want to add at this point,

Mark, on this?

          MR. ALLEN:   No.   I agree with you, Mr. Chairman,

that it's a good idea to withhold making a recommendation

on this one at the meeting today.
                                                                10


            In addition to the captain of the vessel, the

Department of the Interior has also expressed an interest

in attending the meeting, answer any questions that might

come up.    There's been a pretty detailed package that's

been provided to everybody, but it might not answer all the

questions that everybody might have about the issue.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Well, that would be an

interesting meeting when we have the captain and DOI here.

            MS. SIMON:   Is it possible to summarize what

their situation is and what they're asking for, or is it

too complicated?

            MR. ALLEN:   It's actually a fairly simple issue

with a complicated background.

            MS. SIMON:   Okay.

            MR. ALLEN:   Our memo summarizes that.   Even

though we're not going to reach the point where we need to

make a recommendation today, I can go through the

Management recommendation for this.

            MS. SIMON:   There is a Management recommendation

for this?

            MR. ALLEN:   Actually, we don't recommend anything

in this specifically.
                                                                11


          We scheduled this for discussion at the

Department of the Interior's request.    At the very end, you

will see OPM requests that Mr. Chairman schedule this for

discussion at FPRAC's next meeting.    We don't actually have

a Management position formally on this one.    We are seeking

the Committee's advice on the best solution to what's been

raised as a problem by the Department of the Interior.

          Of course, the Department of the Interior is not

a member of FPRAC.

          MR. FENAUGHTY:   Mark, would it be accurate to say

they want to go from a special set-aside pay system now to

the standard FWS five-step system?

          MR. ALLEN:   Not quite.    I'll go through what the

situation is.

          The Department of the Interior has a ship that

goes from the Upper Peninsula of Michigan across to the

Isle Royale National Park, which is an island that's in

Lake Superior.   It's about 70 miles one-way from the home

port of the vessel out to the Isle Royale National Park.

          There are around 10 employees who work on the

vessel, and they are paid from a set-aside schedule.    They

are under the Federal Wage System, but basically because
                                                             12


they're not under our classification system in the Federal

Wage System, they are ungraded.   They do have position

descriptions, of course, but they don't have specific grade

levels under the Federal Wage System classification system.

          For that reason, they are WB employees, which is

usually Wage Board.

          Historically, rates for these employees have been

based on selected rates from Federal Wage System regular

schedule for the Northwestern Michigan wage area.   The

Department of the Interior requests that the employees who

crew the vessel be placed on a five-step special schedule

that would remain a set-aside schedule because it would not

come under the regular Federal Wage System for

classification purposes.

          The five-step set-aside special schedule is

different from what they have now, of course.    They have

one rate, which is equivalent to the Step 3 rate of the

equivalent grade level that the Department of the Interior

determined for them.

          In addition to having a five-step set-aside

special schedule, the employees would no longer be linked

up with the Northwestern Michigan wage schedule.    They
                                                               13


would be linked up with the Detroit, Michigan, wage

schedule, and the reason for that is there are a couple of

other vessels that operate in the Great Lakes area, and

both of those are paid from the Detroit wage schedule.    So

for the sake of equity, the Department of the Interior is

requesting the Detroit wage schedule be used instead of the

Northwestern Michigan wage schedule.

            There's a whole lot of background to this

proposal.   I draw your attention to page 2, and this is the

issue of why the vessel crew members have not been paid

under 5 USC 5348, which is referred to as the "civilian

mariners pay law."   That law excepts the pay of officers

and members of crews of vessels for coverage under the

Federal Wage System, but the Department of the Interior has

taken a look at that section of the law and has determined

that inadequate industry practices exists in that area so

they cannot set pay for the crew of the Ranger III under 5

USC 5348.   So the only other alternative for the employees

is to have them under an arrangement under the Federal Wage

System.

            Further information on that decision is on page 3

of the Department of the Interior's attachment that they
                                                                 14


sent to us, in which they did an analysis of the way the

Ranger III operates and the way the other agencies use the

maritime pay authority.

             MS. SIMON:   Excuse me.   Are they represented by

any union?

             MR. ALLEN:   I don't believe that the captain

would be because he's a supervisory employee.       I don't know

about the rest of the crew.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Any other questions or

discussion for now on this?       Are people agreeable to

deferring the decision-making until we have the captain, if

he wants to be here, as well as the Department of the

Interior?

             MS. SIMON:   That's fine.

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   Any other New Business

items?

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   Well, if there's no

objection, we could adjourn.

             [No audible response.]

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Hearing no objection --

             MR. FENAUGHTY:   I just have a question.
                                                               15


          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Oh, yes, go ahead.

          MR. FENAUGHTY:    I haven't been to a couple of

these meetings.   I've been in other places, but when are we

going to get any of this Old Business done before it

becomes ancient business?

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Well, that's a good question.

I would like to see us clear that up.   Are there any

particular ones that you think we could address today?      I'm

glad to revisit that.

          MR. FENAUGHTY:    Seems like the Lee County,

Virginia, thing has been around for a while, and the (c)

Special Wage Schedule Pay Practices for Federal Wage System

Lock and Dam Employees, those are the two that really --

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Yeah.

          MR. FENAUGHTY:    And I think (e) is pretty old

too.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Oh, yeah.

          MR. ALLEN:    I mentioned at the last meeting that

the information on some of these Old Business items is

stale because we now have new Metropolitan Statistical Area

and new commuting statistics.   So we could do an update on

those.
                                                                  16


            We had referred other old business items to our

working group, and the working group has not made

recommendations out to the full Committee on those.

            MS. SIMON:   Mark, when we were looking at some of

this data for Federal Salary Council, I don't think there

was any change in the commuting data that would affect Lee

County, Virginia.

            MR. ALLEN:   No, we did not look at Lee County,

Virginia.   I think we looked at Lee County, North Carolina.

            MS. SIMON:   I know.    I know we didn't

specifically look at Lee County, Virginia.      I'm just saying

I don't think anything changed with Lee County, Virginia.

            MR. ALLEN:   I doubt that it would because it's

such a pretty rural area.    I don't remember it being

included in a metropolitan area.

            Commuting patterns are unlikely also to show any

difference, but we don't know that for sure until we take a

look at the new ones.    We might be surprised.

            MS. SIMON:   Yeah.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     I welcome us cleaning up our

list of Old Business, so maybe we should figure out an

orderly way to do that.    I'm happy to continue the
                                                              17


discussion here right now about it if you want.

          MS. SIMON:   Well, the issue with Lee County is

there is a prison there that wanted us to investigate the

possibility of moving them to a different wage area, and at

least as of the prior analysis, there was no rationale,

given our current rules, for moving them.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    There was a recommendation

from Management to essentially leave them where they are.

          I think the Department of Justice had actually

requested that they be moved.

          Anyway, so I guess the question is whether

there's a consensus to adopt the Management recommendation

not to move.

          MS. SIMON:   Well, we were just saying that there

is new commuting data that might or might not alter their

status.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Ah, I see.

          MR. ALLEN:   Before we do, we need to take a new

look at the new data that we have available to us.

          Let's go through the list of items I think that

would apply to.   It would be (a) Review of Lee County,

Virginia; (d) Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka MSA; (e)
                                                               18


Monroe County, Pennsylvania, an AFGE letter requesting an

FPRAC review; (f) Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton,

North Carolina; and then (i) Review of the Augusta and

Portland, Maine, wage areas.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    So it seems like that group

of Old Business items would be a good starting point for

looking at the impact of the new MSA data.

          MR. ALLEN:   I don't think I missed any in this.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    So I guess you will let us

know or we will see by way of new documents, New Business

items, when the analysis has been done.

          MR. FENAUGHTY:     The new data is what, Mark?

          MS. SIMON:   New commuting data.    It is like the

data we just looked at, at the Federal Salary Council.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    And there are also MSA

definition changes, right?

          MR. ALLEN:   Yes.    These came out a few months

ago.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   Then on Item (c), I

think it's just a question --    procedurally this ought to

come out of the working group, but the question is whether

to affirm the current pay practice or not.    Is there a
                                                                  19


consensus to affirm it?    We had a presentation from the

Army Corps of Engineers, and we had some discussion in that

working group meeting.    I think perhaps that would be one

that we could get some closure on.

            All right.   Well, why don't we work on it, figure

out a way to take care of this Old Business.

            Any other matter to come before us this morning?

            MR. SHORE:   Yeah.   I just had a question, if

there was any update regarding the recommendation on the

Federal Wage System to Director Berry.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I don't have any update.    Is

there any other information people want to present?

            MR. ALLEN:   There has been no decision rendered

on that recommendation yet.

            MR. SHORE:   I assume there is no time frame to --

I guess I have some members who have been asking and

writing, and I think actually they have written the

Chairman before asking the same question, I guess back in

2012.   They continue to follow up, so I thought I would do

the same.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Sure.   Yeah, we've rendered

our decision and passed it up the chain of command, so I
                                                               20


don't know more than that at this point.

          Okay.     Well, if there's nothing else -- I don't

want to cut anybody off here, but if there's nothing else,

we could adjourn.    Is there a consensus to do that?

          MS. SIMON:    Yes.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   I'm supposed to say,

Is there any objection to adjourn?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I don't hear any objection,

so we're adjourned.    See you all next month.
