                                                                 1

              FEDERAL PREVAILING RATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

                             597th FPRAC

               SHELDON FRIEDMAN, Chairperson, Presiding

                      Thursday, August 21, 2014

                               Room 5526
                    Office of Personnel Management
                        Washington, D.C. 20415



ATTENDANCE:

Members/Alternates:

     Management Members:
     Mark Allen, OPM
     Seth Shulman, DoD
     David Pedersen, Navy
     Gary Buck, Army

     Labor Members:
     Bill Fenaughty, MTD
     Candace Archer, AFGE
     Adair Gregory, NAGE
     Steven Landis, ACT

Staff Specialists and Visitors:
     Brenda Roberts, Designated Federal Officer, OPM
     Madeline Gonzalez, OPM
     Becky Chaves, DoD
     Karl Fendt, DoD
     Brian Bauer, DoD
     Luis Lynch, Air Force

Recording Secretaries:
     Mike Eicher, OPM
     Terri Wallace, OPM

   [Transcript prepared from digital audio produced by FPRAC.]
                                                                    2

                          C O N T E N T S
                                                        Page
I.     Opening/Announcements
       • Introductions.....................................3
       • Announcements.....................................4
         - Update on Director's Executive Conference
           Room Recording Equipment
         - Status Report on FWS Wage Area Map Book Update

II.    Review of the Minutes of 596th Meeting..............6

III.   Old Business........................................6
       a. Review of Lee County, Virginia, 557-MGT-2
          - 2013 Update to Review Lee County, Virginia, 586-MGT-1
       b. Definition of South Bend-Mishawaka, IN-MI
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 562-MGT-2
          - 2013 Update to Definition of South Bend-
            Mishawaka, IN-MI Metropolitan Statistical
            Area, 586-MGT-2
       c. Letter from the American Federation of Government
          Employees, dated June 6, 2011, Requesting FPRAC
          Review a Proposal to Redefine Monroe County, PA
          from the Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, PA Wage Area to
          the New York, NY wage area, 564-AFGE-1
       d. Definition of Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC
          Metropolitan Statistical Area, 575-MGT-1
          - 2013 Update to Definition of
            Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton, NC Metropolitan
            Statistical Area, 588-MGT-1

IV.      New Business......................................7
         a. Letter from American Federation of Government
            Employees dated August 18, 2014, Requesting
            FPRAC Reexamine the Definition of Grenada and
            Yalobusha Counties, MS, 597-AFGE-1
                                                                        3


                             P R O C E E D I N G

             CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Good morning, everyone, and

welcome to our 597th meeting of the Federal Prevailing Rate

Advisory Committee.       My name is Sheldon Friedman, Chair of the

Committee.

             We are in unusual quarters today because of continuing

difficulties with the recording equipment in the Executive

Conference Room downstairs.       Hopefully, that will be resolved by

our October meeting.

             Meanwhile, why don't we go around the room and

introduce ourselves, as we normally do?       Let's start with you

today, Mark.

             MR. ALLEN:    Mark Allen with OPM and also serving

temporarily as the Designated Federal Officer until Brenda

Roberts is able to join the meeting.

             MR. SHULMAN:    Seth Shulman, Department of Defense.

             MR. PEDERSEN:    David Pedersen, Navy.

             MR. BUCK:    Gary Buck, Army.

             MR. FENAUGHTY:    Bill Fenaughty, MTD and NFFE.

             MS. ARCHER:    Candace Archer, AFGE.

             MR. GREGORY:    Adair Gregory, NAGE.

             MR. LANDIS:    Steve Landis, Association of Civilian
                                                                   4


Technicians.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Thank you all.

          If the people around the edge of the room would also

please introduce themselves?

          MR. LYNCH:    Luis Lynch, Air Force.

          MS. CHAVES:    Becky Chaves, DoD.

          MR. EICHER:    Mike Eicher, OPM.

          MS. GONZALEZ:    Madeline Gonzalez, OPM.

          MS. WALLACE:    Terri Wallace, OPM.

          MR. FENDT:    Karl Fendt, DoD.

          MR. BAUER:    Brian Bauer, DoD.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Okay.   A couple of quick

announcements.

          So, as I mentioned, the recording equipment is still

out of commission in the Executive Conference Room in the

Director's Office, but we think in October, it will be back in

operation.

          Any other update on that, Madeline, that you have?

          MS. GONZALEZ:    No, that's the last thing I heard.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Regarding the map book project,

regretfully, the press of other work has prevented as much

progress as we would have hoped by now on that, but I understand
                                                                       5


that it's about 20 percent complete.      There are staffing issues,

as people may well be aware of, that are making it very

difficult to get it done, but it will be completed as soon as

possible.    If any member has a specific map they need, they can

request it.    Of course, meanwhile we have the old maps that we

can reference.

            Any further update on that?

            MR. ALLEN:   One of the issues with this project is

that the previous version of the software that we were using to

do the mapping was no longer supported in our operating system,

so we had to upgrade to a newer version of the software and draw

the maps from scratch.

            Right now, we're working on establishing a new

baseline map, and after that is completed, it shouldn't take too

long to produce maps for individual wage areas.      I would say the

20 percent figure is probably a fair one in terms of the scope

of the whole project.

            As our Chairman says, if anybody has a request for a

specific map for an area that they are interested in, just let

us know, and we will see what we can put together.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Thank you.   I just want to make

sure people did not think we had forgotten about this project.
                                                                    6


It is underway, and progress is being made.

          MR. ALLEN:   The maps that I have seen so far are

looking considerably better than what we had previously.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Right, right.

          Any other announcements?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   If not, that brings up the review

of the transcript of our last meeting.   Are there any other

corrections to that transcript that you want to bring to our

attention?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   If not, is there any objection to

adopting the transcript of our last meeting?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Hearing no objection, the

transcript of the previous meeting is adopted.

          That brings up Old Business.   We have four issues that

have been hanging around for quite a while.    Is there a

particular issue that anyone would like to discuss today?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   If not, we do have one

late-arriving New Business item, and that is a letter from AFGE
                                                                   7


President Cox concerning the Northern Mississippi Wage Area, an

issue that FPRAC wrestled with in 2010, which is an issue

involving the Army Corps of Engineers employees at a series of

lakes in Northern Mississippi.

          I know that we won't finish that agenda item today

because, obviously, people have not really had an opportunity to

look at it in any depth.

          There is some supporting material from our previous

work on this issue that we will recirculate.    We figured that

the members wouldn't have a chance to review it if we circulated

it just a couple of days before the meeting, so we will

circulate it in advance of our next meeting.

          Is there anything that people want to bring up about

this issue now in terms of the type of research that we need to

do, or questions that need to be looked into?

          I have a few thoughts, but I wonder if anyone else

wants to bring anything up right now on this issue.

          MS. ARCHER:   I actually just want to apologize for

this agenda item getting to you so late.   We had anticipated

putting it on the September agenda, so I appreciate sort of the

preview of this, and we hope to do more work on this for the

September meeting.
                                                                        8


            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Okay.   We actually don't have a

September meeting.

            MS. ARCHER:    Oh, I thought there was a September 17th

meeting.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     No.   The Chair will be on

vacation.    But we have an October meeting.

            MS. ARCHER:    Oh.   My apologies.   So then the October

meeting will be fine.

            MR. ALLEN:    That actually gives us a little more time

to look at new information we might have available.        We last

reviewed this in 2010, so we should be able to obtain updated

information from the Census Bureau.        I doubt that any of the

metropolitan statistical areas would have changed in that

particular area, but we will take a look and see what's changed

there, if anything.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     I think I would ask our Designated

Federal Officer who just walked into the room to introduce

herself for the record.

            MS. ROBERTS:    Brenda Roberts.

            CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:     Thank you.

            MS. ROBERTS:    And I apologize for having to arrive to

the meeting late.
                                                                     9


          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    That's okay.

          MR. ALLEN:    I will take off my second hat now.

          [Laughter.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    I have a few thoughts about the

issue.

          I thought of three things.    The first is to update the

regulatory criteria analysis of the two counties in question

where the lakes are located.    Maybe it would be helpful to take

a fresh look at an updated analysis.

          The second is the viability of the Northern

Mississippi Wage Area.    It is one of those low-employment wage

areas that we are going to be talking about later today in our

working group.   I don't know the amount of survey data that is

being collected in that wage area and so forth, and it would be

nice to have a good picture of the viability of that wage area.

          Then the third is whether there is a sense in which

these four lakes should be considered a single activity or

installation, given the amount of alleged interchange of

workforce.   How much actual movement of workers from one lake to

another occurs within the four lakes?    This seems to me to be a

question for which it should be possible to get some answers, to

help us understand the issue better.
                                                                      10


          MR. ALLEN:    I think they are all good questions.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:      Any other discussion at this time?

          MR. SHULMAN:    I would only observe that certainly we

have had discussions about such issues, particularly the Army

Corps of Engineers in prior meetings, and it's proven useful to

have representatives from the Army Corps of Engineers present.

          This is no slight to our friends from the Department

of the Army, Gary.

          MR. BUCK:    I know.    None taken.

          MR. SHULMAN:    Okay.    So most representatives from the

Office of the Director of Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works,

Operations, Office would have a grasp of what actually goes on,

and it would probably have some probative value for any

discussion of this issue to have them present.

          MR. BUCK:    Have we requested information from the

Corps of Engineers?

          MR. SHULMAN:    We have not done anything because this

just showed up on the agenda on Wednesday.

          MR. BUCK:    Okay.   How about back in 2010?

          MR. SHULMAN:    I don't know the history of what was

happening in 2010.    I wasn't doing this Committee work in 2010,

so I was not present for those discussions, but we’ve had other
                                                                    11


discussions where Army Corps of Engineers' pay issues have

arisen at lock and dam situations.

          MR. BUCK:    Right.

          MR. SHULMAN:    We have had Army Corps of Engineers

present in the past at meetings in person as well as on the

phone, and it has proven useful.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Yes.   It seems to me that it would

be very helpful if we could get that participation and input.

Thank you for that.

          Unless there's anything else on this issue, we have

laid out a research agenda for it.     So I think that's probably

as much as we could hope to do on this topic today.

          Anything else on this issue?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Well, okay.   If not, any other New

Business items that people want to bring up this morning?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    We do have a working group meeting

today after this meeting is over, which will be in this same

room.

          I just want to remind people that we don't have a

September meeting.    Our next meeting will be October 16th.
                                                                      12


           If there is no other new business, it would be in

order for us to adjourn.     Is there any objection to our

adjourning?

           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Hearing none -- yes, sir.

           MR. FENAUGHTY:    I have a question, actually.    Are we

ever going to get to this Old Business?     Some of this stuff has

been hanging out here since Christ was a Carpenter.

           [Laughter.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Well, what was he paid, by the

way?   Which wage area was he in?

           MR. FENAUGHTY:    Minimum.

           [Laughter.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    So I think that's a good question.

Any thoughts on that?     Anybody   on the Committee on either side

of the table have any thoughts on that?

           [No audible response.]

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:    Well, I think we need to put our

heads together and figure out how to deal with those issues.

Basically, these have been non-consensus issues.     We can either

walk the plank on them and make a decision or --

           MR. SHULMAN:    Well, one of them is certainly wrapped
                                                                    13


up.   Item (c) is certainly wrapped up in an entire --

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   In a larger issue.

           MR. SHULMAN:   In a larger issue.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Yes.

           MR. SHULMAN:   From my perspective, it would not be

something we want to discuss here until the larger issue is

addressed.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   I would say on item (a), the

Review of Lee County, Virginia, is another one of these rather

low-employment wage areas, which we are going to have a

discussion on in the working group in a few minutes.     So that

might or might not be something that is useful to look at

through the lens of the overall employment level in that wage

area.

           MR. FENAUGHTY:   Well, the first two have been sitting

here for quite some time, if my memory is right.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Right.

           MR. FENAUGHTY:   I understand what Seth is saying about

item (c) that we can't really get into that until we take care

of the other big issue.

           CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Right.

           MR. FENAUGHTY:   But (a) and (b), we can certainly get
                                                                     14


moving somewhere, get the ship away from the pier.

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Yes.    Well, I'm all for that.   I

second you.   I'm not allowed to second motions, but if I were, I

would second your motion.

          Anything else this morning?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   If not, any objection to

adjourning?

          [No audible response.]

          CHAIRMAN FRIEDMAN:   Okay.    Hearing no objection, we

are adjourned, and I don't know if we need a full 10 minutes,

but in a few minutes, we will begin the working group meeting.

                               --
