 this is her last meeting with us. all of these letters pertain to the proposal to combine fws wage areas that lie inside of gs locality pay areas. the incoming letters, i think you have from previous meetings. the current pay system approach for the vessel is that it's a set-aside wage schedule. it's not been part of the federal wage system since the federal wage system was created, but the set-aside wage schedule was allowed to continue, and the rates on the wage schedule are making it difficult to recruit and retain sufficient personnel to staff the vessel in a manner that master hanrahan believes is safe. we are working out the logistics of how to share those with the members of the committee. now, i would like to call on jerry to see if there is any update on the draft proposed regulation to consolidate fws wage areas. it may be of some interest to this audience. i believe we had decided that all these items would be discussed in the working group, unless there's some comments here that people want to make about any of them. under new business, we have two issues, both of which involve the regulation that msas should not be split between federal wage system wage areas except   in very unusual circumstances. if not, my suggestion would be to refer them to the working group, because there's a similar issue already there, and the general question of what to do about this long-standing regulation is something that is on the table in the working group. under new business, definition of hickory-lenoir-morganton, north carolina, msa 575-mgt-1. under 575-mgt-1, the management members recommend that alexander and catawba counties be redefined to the asheville wage areas area of application. alexander, burke, caldwell, and catawba counties, north carolina, comprise the hickory-lenoir-morganton, north carolina, msa, and that msa is currently split between asheville, north carolina, and charlotte, north carolina, wage areas. under opm's regulatory criterion, unless there's some exceptional reason for having the msa split, all the counties should be combined under one wage area. under 575-mgt-2, we have a management recommendation to move mercer county to the cleveland wage areas area of application. the youngstown-warren-boardman, ohio- pennsylvania msa is split between the cleveland, oh, and pittsburgh, pa, wage areas. and again, as with the previous case, that entire msa under opm's regulatory criterion currently should be combined under just one wage area. i just wanted to make note of a new member of the wage staff, appropriated fund side. this is his first and certainly not his last fprac meeting, so i want everyone to know who he is. this is my first meeting as well. well, unless there's some objection -- well, is there any other new business? are there any other items people want to bring up?